

=== Introduction ===


--- Welcome! ---

Hi and welcome in this course.
My name is Marty and I'm super excited to see you for the Airflow Advanced Dagger Throwing course.
This course is really for advanced users like you.
Or maybe you want to become an advanced user.
The idea of this course is to give you all the most advanced features of airflow, so you can take your
ducks to the next level.
But to follow this course in the best possible way, there are two prerequisites, and the first one
is to have Docker installed on your computer.
So truly the first step is to go to Docker.com.
And then here you have download Docker Desktop.
You click on it and then you select your operating system.
You follow the instructions and you install Docker on your computer.
Once you install Docker, make sure that you can access the following interface.
If you can't, then you won't be able to follow the course.
So regardless if you are on windows, Linux, or Mac OS, make sure that you have access to Docker Desktop.
Next, you must have a prior experience with airflow.
In this course, you will learn the most advanced features of airflow, such as how you can generate
tasks dynamically, how you can transform and filter the outputs of your tasks, how you can integrate
AI in your workflows, how you can trigger DAGs based on real time events, and much more.
So keep in mind this course is for advanced users, or at least users that have a prior experience with
airflow.
If you don't have any experience with airflow, it's going to be hard for you to follow this course.
But don't worry, I have plenty of resources for you.
If you go on my Udemy profile, you will see the different courses and feel free to take a look at the
complete hands on introduction to Apache Airflow three, where you will learn all the basics and then
you can come back to this course.
Okay, so that's it about this video.
I'm sure you will enjoy this course a lot.
You will learn a lot.
Keep in mind prior experience with Airflow and Docker installed.
That's all you need.

--- Who I am? ---

A quick video about myself.
My name is Marco Marti.
I am living in Mauritius, a very tiny island close to South Africa.
But I was born in France and as you can hear it by my accent, I am obviously French.
Uh, also, I am an airflow expert.
I'm a data engineer.
I've published a couple of courses about airflow on Udemy.
As you can see on my page, you can see here five different courses.
So if you want to learn about airflow, I have plenty of resources for that.
I also have a YouTube channel which is data with Mark, where you can find additional content with airflow
and other topics.
And I highly recommend you to connect with me on LinkedIn.
So please pause the video now and send me an invitation on LinkedIn.
I would love to know you.
I would love to know what you are looking for in that course.
And, uh, you know, just to know you, uh, so feel free to connect with me on LinkedIn.
Last but not least, full disclosure, I'm working at astronomer as the head of customer education.
So if you go on astronomer IO, you will find some content that I've created as well about Astro and
Airflow.
And you know, the reason why I'm working at astronomer is because many PMC members.
So actually people that work actively on the airflow project are working at astronomer as well.
And obviously I truly believe in airflow.
And so I truly believe in astronomer because in my opinion, it's the best way to run airflow at scale
in production.
Um, you know, uh, than if you go with the open source version only.
Okay.
So that's it about me again, I'm super happy to see you.
Don't forget to connect with me on LinkedIn.
You can take a look at my YouTube channel data with Mark, and I see you for the next video.
Take care.


=== Create DAGs like Pro ===


--- Course Goals ---

In this video, I would like to quickly talk about the course objectives.
So this course for now is divided in four different sections.
And the first section is Taskflow API.
So if you don't know what the Taskflow API is, it's a new way of writing your DAGs, which is much
faster and easier to write and to read.
But most importantly, in that section you will discover how you can manage master the task decorator,
how you can use context variables, Dag parameters, dynamic Dag generation, and much more.
So this section is dedicated for you to have the foundations for building DAGs in a much more efficient
way.
Then you have the second section which is about advanced.
Scheduling or Dag scheduling.
And truly in that section you will discover everything you ever wondered about Dag scheduling in airflow.
You will see the difference between cron and Timedelta scheduling, how you can use real time events
to trigger your DAGs.
How you can have continuous DAGs and much more.
So honestly, this section is really important.
If you want to master Dag scheduling in airflow, and then you have the third section which is about
dynamic.
Task mapping.
So dynamic task mapping is not just about dynamically generate tasks.
It's much more than that.
Indeed, in that section you will discover some of the methods that many people don't know about, but
are very powerful for modifying, changing, filtering the outputs of your tasks dynamically.
So I'm pretty sure that in this section you will find new ways for making your DAGs again, much more
efficient and flexible.
Then last but not least, in the fourth section you will discover how to use AI with airflow because
as you know right, AI is everywhere and I think it's very important for you to learn how to efficiently
use AI with your workflows.
And for that, you will discover a specialized SDK that I'm sure you will love, and also the new operators
in airflow three that will allow you to control your limbs through the airflow.
User interface.
Okay.
So you have four different sections.
And you can take any of those sections in any order you want.
Okay.
Which means you don't have to start with section one and then section two and then section three.
If you want to start with section two, you can.
If you want to start with section three, you can just within each section you have to follow the order
of the videos.
Okay this is super important, but you can pick the section that you are the most interested by.
Last but not least, the objective of that course truly is to give you everything you need to take your
dogs to the next level for you to understand the most advanced features of airflow.
So you actually discover everything you can do with airflow, and so with your workflows with your dogs.
So ultimately you will have better written data pipelines, maybe less errors.
And most importantly, you will be able to manage your data exactly as you want.
And hopefully you won't be like, oh, I can do that in airflow.
Well, maybe you can.
And that's what you will discover in this course.


=== Schedule your DAGs like a Pro ===


--- Setting Up Your Airflow Development Environment ---

Let's take a look at the development environment.
Because to follow that course you will need a local airflow instance running on your computer.
So the first and the best option is to use the astro CLI.
This is what I use throughout the course.
So this is an open source project.
You can use it.
You don't have to be an astronomical customer.
And in my opinion it is the best and easiest way to run airflow locally.
And I'm not saying that because I'm working on astronomer.
I truly believe that if you try astro cli, you will see that by yourself.
You get everything you need out of the box for your best practices so you will save time.
The only thing that you need here is to have Docker installed on your computer.
But again, this is a prerequisite of the course.
You have to have Docker, otherwise you won't be able to run airflow in local.
But then you go to the following link on the astro CLI.
And if you are on macOS then you just need to run this command.
Otherwise you can go to install the CLI and then pick the operating system you have and then you follow
the instructions.
It is pretty straightforward.
Now if you don't want to use astro CLI this is okay I got your back.
I have a docker compose file for you.
But again it's gonna be easier if you use the astro CLI.
But let me show you that under this video you will have a zip file that you just need to unzip, and
then you will run docker compose up d in order to start your airflow instance, and you will end up
with almost the same folder and file architecture than if you use the CLI.
When you unzip the file you will see the following files and folders.
So you have the config folder, the logs folder, and then some of the files here.
If you want to install an airflow provider, as you will see later in the course, you will have to
put it in the requirements.txt file.
But most importantly you have docker file the airflow version we use which is 3.1.5.
And then the docker compose file is what you need to use in order to start all the airflow components,
such as the API server, the scheduler, and so on.
At the end, you end up with the following folders the DAGs folder, the logs folder, the config plugins
and include folders.
Again, this is pretty similar that what you would end up with if you use the CLI.
But if you don't want to use the CLI then you have this beautiful docker compose file.
Okay, so that's all you need.
As soon as you have the CLI installed on your computer, if you want to run it, you just need to run
the command.
Actually let me go to a different folder.
You just need to run the command Astro Dev start and you can add the option dash dash, verbosity,
debug.
If you want to follow what the client does when it runs, and then you will have access to your airflow
user interface.
And if you don't use the CLI, you can use the command docker compose up dash d in the folder where
the docker compose file is.
If you want to stop your airflow instance, you can run the command Astro dev stop.
Or if you want to restart it, you can run Astro Dev restart.
And again, if you don't use Astro CLI then you will have to use docker compose done and then docker
compose.
Up dash g okay, so that's all you need to know at the end.
Regardless of the method you use, you end up with the airflow UI running on the port localhost 8080.
You will have access to that on your web browser.
And to access the airflow user interface with Docker compose file, you have to use the login airflow
and the password airflow.
Okay, so that's it.
If you have any questions, let me know in the comment section of Udemy and I'll see you for the next
video.


=== Create dynamic tasks like a Pro ===


--- Why do you need creating DAGs with Taskflow ---

Let me introduce the Taskflow API, and why using the Taskflow API in airflow will make your DAGs much
easier to read, write, and debug.
Let's get started.
Okay, so let's begin by what the task API is.
Well, the Taskflow API is a functional API for using decorators to define DAGs and tasks, which simplifies
the process for passing data between tasks and defining dependencies.
So basically you can use Taskflow decorator functions.
For example, the add task decorator that you will see later to pass data between tasks by providing
the output of one task as an argument to another task.
So ultimately decorators are simpler, cleaner way to define your tasks and DAGs, and can be used in
combination with traditional operators.
But you may wonder what is a decorator?
Well, if you don't know that, I truly recommend you to look at the Python documentation.
But basically, a decorator is a function that takes another function as an argument and extend the
behavior of that function.
So for example, here you have this function that prints hello on the standard output.
And then you have the following decorator right.
That wraps this function so that if you use this decorator you will print on the standard output before
and then after.
So first it prints before on the standard output.
Then run the function and then prints hello and finally prints after on the standard output.
Okay.
And that's the idea of a decorator.
A decorator extends the behavior of a function.
And the idea is the same for airflow.
An airflow decorator function extends the behavior of a normal Python function to turn it into an airflow
task, task group, or Dag.
Let me show you an example.
So what you can see here, I'm pretty sure it is familiar to you.
This is how you create a Python task using the Python operator.
So you can see here we have the Python function that we want to execute.
In that case my task that prints on the standard output.
Hello world.
And then we use the Python operator with a task ID, the unique identifier of the task, and we pass
my task, the Python function as a parameter of Python callable, so that in our airflow Dag we will
see a task.
My task that runs this Python function.
Okay, so this is the traditional way of doing that.
But let me show you the exact same thing, but this time using the Taskflow API.
So this is the code with the Taskflow API.
So I think we agree that it is much easier to read, to write, and even to debug.
The only thing you need to do now is to use the add task decorator to the Python function that you want
to execute, and automatically for airflow.
This becomes a task in your Dag.
So that's the beauty of task flow.
Now airflow brings many decorators.
So this is just an example of what you have access.
So you have the task decorator corresponding to the Python operator.
You have the task dot docker corresponding to the Docker operator.
If you want to run some code inside a Docker container.
You have the task dot branch.
If you want to use the branch operator to choose one task or another.
You have the task dot Kubernetes if you want to run some code in a Kubernetes pod.
You have the task Snowpark.
If you want to use Snowpark or you have the task sensor if you want to implement a sensor.
So again, this is a very small list of all decorators that airflow brings.
I recommend you to look at the airflow documentation if you want to have the exhaustive list.
But bear in mind, the purpose of the task API in airflow is to simplify the Dag authoring experience
by eliminating the boilerplate code required by traditional operators.
And the result can be cleaner Dag files that are more concise and easier to read.
So that's why in general, I recommend you to use the Taskflow API if you can, instead of the traditional
way of writing your Dag.


=== AI in Airflow like a Pro ===


--- Rewriting an old DAG with Taskflow ---

Starting from this section of the course, you will discover the new way of authoring your data pipelines
in airflow using the Taskflow API.
The Taskflow API brings decorators and in my opinion, it is much better and easier to write your DAGs
this way than using the old way that we're going to start with.
Right now, the following data pipeline is pretty simple.
We have two tasks task A and task B, and task A calls the Python function, extract data, then extract
data.
Basically push Xcom with the key data and the value 42.
Remember that Xcom is a value stored in the airflow meta database.
And then if we look at the task B that calls the transform data Python function.
And again here we pull the Xcom that comes from the task A, so the value 42, and then we push another
Xcom, but this time we multiply 42 by two.
And so we end up with 84.
So a very simple data pipeline.
However, the way this data pipeline is written could be much better.
And this can be done by using the Taskflow API.
So let's write the exact same data pipeline using the task API and the decorators.
As usual, you will find the corresponding code under that video.
So the first step is to create a new Dag file.
So in the DAGs folder we can create a new file called new_dag.py.
And then we need to import the decorators.
For that you're going to type from airflow SDK.
And you import the Dag decorator as well as the task decorator.
The Dag decorator is basically the Dag object.
So it is the equivalent of what you can see here.
And then the task decorator is actually the equivalent of the Python operator.
So each time you use the task decorator you are creating a Python operator task that can execute a Python
function.
Next we can use the Dag decorator like that.
So add dag and we can pass some parameters here.
So let's use the same parameters as in this Dag.
So the start date the schedule and the tags.
We don't need the dag ID you're going to know in a second why.
And then we import that time.
Then we can change the tag by new and as it is a decorator, you have to define a Python function that
corresponds to your tag.
So here let's call it new tag.
And this is a Python function.
But new tag that you can see right here is the unique identifier of my tag.
It is the name of my tag.
And last but not least, since this is a Python function, you have to explicitly call it at the end
of the Dag file.
So here let's put new Dag.
If you don't do that, you won't be able to see your Dag on the UI.
So this is very important.
Now we have the Dag definition.
The next step is to create the tasks.
If we look at the old Dag we have two tasks task A and task B, both using the Python operator.
So we can use the task decorator.
Remember that the task decorator is the Python operator.
Now as we use the task decorator, it's going to be much easier to write those tasks than in the old
way.
So let me show you that first you're going to copy this Python function, extract data that task A calls,
and then you're going to paste that Python function right here okay.
Within the Python function corresponding to your Dag.
Make sure that the indentation is correct like that.
Then to turn this Python function into a Python operator task that belongs to the Dag new Dag, you
just need to put the task decorator on top of it, and automatically this python function becomes a
Python operator task that belongs to the Dag.
Last but not least, we don't need to explicitly call Xcom push to create an Xcom with the value 42
here.
Instead, what we can do is just return the value 42, and that will automatically create a Xcom with
the value 42 in the airflow metadata base.
Again, since this task is a Python function, we have to explicitly call it otherwise for airflow,
this task does not exist.
Okay, if you look at the old Dag, you can see here that we don't have to explicitly call task A,
we call task A here, but not with the parentheses.
However, with the task API you have to explicitly call the task.
So extract data using parenthesis.
Okay again very important.
Otherwise for airflow this task does not exist.
And just like that, you have successfully created the equivalent of task A using the task API.
I think we already agree that it is much simpler and easier to write than with the old way.
Okay, you can just focus on the Python function and turns that into a task.
Now let's move on to task B.
So again same idea.
We're going to copy transform data then paste it here.
Again we check the annotation okay.
Like that.
And then we put the At task decorator on top of it.
So now this Python function is a Python operator.
We can remove the parameter here and you will see why in a second.
And then we're just going to do something like return data and we multiply the value by two.
Now where data comes from.
Well from the parameter of the Python function.
So here we can just put data.
Now you may do something like that in order to execute transform data after extract data.
So you put the right bit shift operator.
And then you call transform data with the parentheses.
However that won't work because transform data expects a data parameter.
So in order to pass a value to the data parameter here well this data value comes from the previous
task extract data.
So it should be 42.
Well guess what.
With Taskflow you can just do something like that.
So you call extract data as a parameter of transform data.
And automatically the value that extract data returns will be a parameter of the next task.
Transform data and you will be able to use it like that.
Okay, so that's the power of the Taskflow API.
Just by sharing some data between the different tasks.
Airflow will be able to define the dependencies for you.
Obviously you can do something like that as well.
If you don't want to call extra data as a parameter of transformed data.
You can do something like value equals to extract data and then pass the value like that.
But let's do it this way as it is shorter to write.
Okay.
And now if you save the file and look at the airflow UI, if you didn't make any mistake, you should
be able to see your Dag on the DAGs view.
And then if you click on it new Dag, you will be able to see the two tasks, extract data and transform
data.
Let's trigger the data pipeline to see what happens.
So we click trigger and then single run and wait a little bit.
And you can see the two tasks have been successfully executed.
If we look at transform data and then look at the Xcom, we can see the value 84 as expected.
So this is the power of Taskflow.
Taskflow brings decorators that help you to write your DAGs and tasks in a much easier and faster way
than with the old way.
Okay, you can see that this Dag is exactly the same as this one.
However, I think we agree that using TensorFlow is much easier to read, to write, and even to debug.
Now it is up to you to choose which way you prefer.
I prefer the task flow and I recommend you to stick to it because again, it's just better in my opinion.
But it is up to you to choose which way you prefer.
Don't forget that you can definitely use this notation, for example with Dag with the decorators as
well.
Okay, you don't have to use the Dag decorator if you don't like this way of defining your Dag object,
but in my opinion, each time you need the Python operator or other tasks as well, you will see that
there are other decorators you can use.
Then I recommend you to use decorators instead of the classic operators like the Python operator.
Okay, so that's it for a quick introduction of Taskflow.
In the rest of the videos, we will deep dive into more advanced features.

--- Access DAG information and more from your tasks ---

In this video, you will discover how you can create multiple xcoms when you return a dictionary from
a task.
And most importantly, you will discover how you can access the context variables using Taskflow.
So let's get started.
The following data pipeline is pretty simple, right?
I mean, we only have two tasks extract data and transform data and extract data.
Returns a single value.
42.
But now let's say we want to do something more complex.
And instead of returning a single value, we want to return multiple values.
How can you do that?
Well first you should never do multiple Xcom pushes.
For example, don't do something like that where you have like value 42 and then another Xcom push and
this time value 43, because each time you do a Xcom push that makes a sequel request to your airflow
meta database.
And obviously this is not optimized, right?
You're going to make two requests to your airflow meta database to store two values, whereas you could
do that using a single request.
And also keep in mind that if you have many data pipelines doing that, then obviously you can overload
your airflow Metadatabase.
So the other way, and the best way to do that is by returning a dictionary.
So for example you're going to return instead of 42.
You will do something like that, like let's say input a and then 42 and then input B 43.
If you run this Dag by returning this dictionary, extract data will create a single Xcom with your
dictionary in it.
In fact you can see that right here.
So I just executed the Dag.
And obviously transform data didn't succeed because we are trying to multiply a dictionary.
We will fix that in a second.
But looking at the Xcom of the extract data task, you can see in the value that you have your dictionary
with two items input A and input B.
Therefore, if we want to fix the error with transform data, then we have to make some modifications.
Remember that data is this dictionary.
And so one thing we can do because we cannot multiply a dictionary by two is something like that.
So data and then input A like that equals to data input A multiply by two and then the same with input
b.
And finally we can just return data.
If you trigger the Dag again this time transform data walks.
And if you click on it and take a look at the logs, you can see that the following value was returned
corresponding to what we do in the task.
In fact, if you go to Xcom, you can see that this task also returned a new Xcom input A with the value
84 and input B with the value 129.
Okay, so this is pretty basic, but just keep in mind whenever you need to store multiple values from
a task, don't use multiple Xcom pushes.
Return a dictionary instead.
This is more optimized.
Now let's imagine that instead of having a single downstream task, transform data that fetches the
dictionary with input A and input B, you have two downstream tasks transform A that fetches, input
A from, extract data, and transform B that fetches input B from extract data.
And so you don't have transform data anymore.
How can you do that?
How can you make sure that transform A fetches only the input A and then transform B fetches only the
input B from extract data.
Because right now you only have a single Xcom with all the values in it.
The dictionary that extract data returns.
Well, this is where you need to use a special parameter that allows you to transform the keys of a
dictionary into multiple xcoms automatically.
And this parameter is multiple outputs.
So if you set multiple outputs to true for the task decorator, that means input A in the dictionary
will become a single Xcom with the key input A and the value 42, and then input B will become a single
Xcom with the key input B and the value 43.
So if we save the file and run the Dag in the airflow UI, if you select Extract Data and look at the
Xcoms, you can see that this time we have three xcoms, one corresponding to the dictionary exactly
like before, but two others corresponding to the keys that we have in this dictionary.
So again, a single Xcom for input A with the value 42 and another Xcom input B with the value 43 as
expected.
And this is because we are using multiple outputs to true.
Now we have two distinct xcoms for input A and input B.
Let's create the corresponding downstream tasks.
So right here we can just use the task decorator again and then transform A with input A that we want
to multiply by two and then transform b with input b that we want to multiply by three.
And now we just need to modify the dependencies Like that.
So values equals to extract data.
And then we can call transform a like that with the values input a.
And here we do the same with transform b with values input b.
And that's it.
So if we save the file and take a look at the airflow UI, you can see the two downstream tasks transform
A and transform B of extract data.
And if we take a look at transform A we can see in the logs 84 as expected.
And if we take a look at transform B, we can see 129 as expected okay.
So this is what you need to remember with multiple outputs to true, you will be able to split a dictionary
of values into individual xcoms automatically.
Back to the Dag.
You may wonder how can you access the context of your Dag or task, right?
Because accessing the context in airflow is very common.
Each time you need to get the current date of the Dag run, or if you need to access your variables,
and so on, you will need to access the context.
So how can you access that context using Taskflow?
Well, it is very simple.
So let me show you that first we're going to add a new parameter to the Dag.
So for that after tags you can add params that expects a dictionary.
And then let's put extra input with the value ten.
So that means if you trigger your Dag manually, you will either keep the default value ten for the
extra input parameter, or you can change it if you want.
Now we have that extra input.
How can we fetch this parameter in the task?
Let's say transform A.
Well, there are multiple ways.
The first and maybe the most common way is by passing the entire context with two stars and then context.
Once you have that you can do something like that.
So print then context and then params.
And finally you access extra input.
Okay, I do not recommend this way at all.
Why?
Because you are choosing to receive the entire context that will incur a slight performance penalty,
since airflow will need to expand the entire context.
That likely contains many things that you actually don't need.
Instead, I recommend you to explicitly pass the context variables that you need.
So for example, here you need params.
So instead of passing the context like that, you can just put params.
And then you remove this and put params instead.
And just like that not only these shorter to write, but also you know exactly what this task needs
the params from your Dag.
Keep in mind you can access any context variable that you want like that.
So for example, if you need to access the current date of the Dag run, you can use DS like that or
even data interval start.
This is also an option.
Or if you want to access the logical date of the diagram, you can put logical date and so on.
Okay.
You can access all the context variables that the context has with this method.
One thing that it is optional, but I like to do to explicitly indicate that this parameter is not a
parameter that I should feel okay, like input a is by putting equals none.
Okay, so that I know that this parameter comes from airflow and not from me.
Okay.
But again this is optional.
You don't have to do that.
All right.
So now you know that let's do some modifications to use this extra input in the tasks.
So here we're going to get that value extra input.
And then we're going to use it right here.
So we're going to multiply by extra input again.
And we're going to do the same for transform B like that okay.
Finally there is a third way for accessing the context of your Dag and tasks.
This way is by using the method get current context.
So basically from airflow SDK you can import get current context.
And then in your tasks you can call the function like that.
So context equals to get current context.
And again from here you will be able to do something like that context and then params and then extra
input.
So you may wonder when do you need this way.
Well if you are really deep in the stack and for some reason it is hard for you to access the context
variables by explicitly calling them, then you should definitely use get current context.
Okay, so this is the third and last way to access the context of your Dag and tasks.
All right, so feel free to run the Dag to see if it works.
And it should.
And that's it about accessing the context of your Dag and tasks using task flow.
So again keep in mind always explicitly pass the context variables that you want to access like that.
And again, I recommend you to stick to this way so that you know that this parameter you don't have
to give a value.
Airflow does it for you.

--- Passing parameters to your DAGs ---

When you run a data pipeline, you may want to pass some configuration values, some parameters.
And in this video, we will deep dive into the correct way of passing parameters to your DAGs and most
importantly, how to use parameters in the context of Taskflow.
So let's get started.
Passing parameters to your DAGs is as simple as specifying the params parameter of the Dag object,
with a dictionary corresponding to the parameters that you want your Dag to take.
So for example, here the parameter is extra input with the value ten, which means if you go on the
airflow UI and then trigger your Dag, you can see here run parameters with the parameter extra input
and the default value ten.
As you know, you can then use this parameter with the value ten done to your tasks.
As you can see in transform A and transform B, okay, this is a very simple and not the best way of
defining parameters in your DAGs.
Instead, I recommend you to use the param class.
The param class helps you to define Dag parameters, and you have access to much more customizations
than if you go with this way.
So let me show you that.
First you just need to import param from the SDK.
And now instead of putting ten like that we're going to use the param class.
Then we can put ten as the default value.
But we can also define some other parameters such as the type of the parameter in that case an integer.
Then you can define a title for this parameter.
So let's say extra input that you will see on the airflow UI.
You can also add a description to this parameter.
So we can say this extra input is used to multiply the input a and input b.
And then we can also add a section that again will appear on the airflow UI.
So let's say important parameters.
And why not a minimum value that can be one.
And then a maximum value that could be 100.
And I just realized I made a typo.
So this is not int.
It should be integer like that okay.
So you can see that you can add much more customizations on your parameter.
That will help you on the airflow UI.
But for now, let's keep things a little bit more simpler so we can remove those three parameters.
And then I just want to show you on the airflow UI just with the minimum and the maximum values.
If I click on trigger and then put anything under one, then the input turns in red because I cannot
have anything under one.
And again if I put any value above 100 let's say nine and nine.
Again this turns red.
That means I cannot use that value for the extra input parameter.
Another cool feature of the param class is when you need a date for your Dag parameter.
It is nice because you will have a calendar on the airflow UI.
So let me show you that.
Let's say we add a new parameter extra date with again the param class.
And then here the type will be string, but the default value will be a date.
So right here we can put a date like January 1st 2025 at midnight like that.
And then we can put the format date time okay.
And once you do that, if you take a look on the airflow UI, you can see the additional parameter extra
date.
But if you click on that little icon, you have the calendar to other parameter types that I think are
important to know.
You have the boolean one.
So let's say you want to have a toggle.
In that case let's put extra boolean.
And then now the param is equals to true.
But this time the type is boolean.
So again if we save the file and take a look on the airflow UI.
Now we have this toggle that we can turn off or turn on.
And the last one is the enum.
If you want to have a list of values from which you can pick one value.
So for example, let's say extra enum like that.
Again we use the param class and this time we default the value to value one.
Then the type is string, but the enum lists all the values that you can pick from.
So here value one, two, and three.
Again, if we save the file and go on the airflow UI, you can see here extra enum with the different
values that you can choose from.
Okay.
So that's why params are so useful.
As you can see, the more parameters we add with different types and so on, the more the trigger form
for this Dag adapts to our needs.
If for some reason you need to pass multiple JSON values and you don't want to specify, you know every
parameter like that, keep in mind that you can do that.
If you go to Advanced Options.
You can see here configuration JSON.
If you want to learn more about the param class, I strongly recommend you to take a look at the documentation,
because there are many things that you can do with that class.
And if I tell you everything in that video, the video will be way too long.
Okay, but you know the most important things.
Now let's take a look at how you can use param with the Dag decorator in the context of Taskflow, because
there is a very good thing that you can do as we use the Dag decorator.
So instead of defining the parameters like that okay, within the Dag decorator we're going to copy
all of those parameters okay.
And then we cut them.
And then we paste the same parameters between the parentheses of the Dag function okay.
So right here then we need to remove the double quotes like that and we do the same for extra date,
extra boolean and extra NM.
Now we have the Dag parameters as parameters of the Dag function.
We can do something really cool indeed.
If you remove the default values.
Okay so ten and then this date and then the true here and then value one.
Since this is a function when we call the Dag at the end of this file right here, we can pass the values
that we want to provide to the Dag.
So for example let's say 100 and then 2026 and then the value false.
And let's say value two here.
And if you do that and save the file on the UI, if you click trigger you can see the different values
that you provided to the Dag function.
This is great but you may wonder why is that useful?
Well, it is useful in the case where you want to generate multiple DAGs using the same one, but with
different configurations.
Let me show you how you can do that in the next video.

--- Dynamically generate DAGs with different settings ---

With param, you can define Dag parameters that will be used when you trigger your Dag.
For example, here as we use the task API, we have the Dag decorator with in the python function corresponding
to the Dag, the different params and those params.
We give the values at the end of the Dag file when we call the Dag function, as you can see right here.
So this is great, but you may say, well, what's the difference between doing that and defining the
Dag params in the Dag decorator?
Well, the Dag decorator is super useful when you want to generate multiple dags using the same Dag
but with different parameter values.
Let me show you that.
Let's say you have the following set of values corresponding to your first configuration, and then
you have another set of values corresponding to your second configuration.
And what you want to do is to generate two DAGs for those two configurations.
Let me show you how to do it.
So first, at the top of the Dag file we're going to create a new variable configs.
That will be a list of lists.
So let's create a list.
And then in there we create two lists.
The first one and the second one each list corresponding to a configuration.
So as you can see here, we have the parm values corresponding to those parameters.
And same thing for the second list right here but with different values.
However, we have something new at the beginning of those lists which is the dag id.
So here you have dag a and then dag B, because remember that each dag must have a unique dag id a unique
identifier.
That's why if you call the Dag function right here twice, it won't work because you will end up with
the same Dag id for both DAGs, which is new dag.
And keep in mind, the dag id is defined within the Dag decorator.
You cannot pass dag id here like that.
That won't work.
Okay.
The dag id must be defined at the dag decorator.
So to solve that, that's why we have the Dag IDs here.
And so the next step is to create a loop.
So we're going to loop over the config.
So for config in configs.
And then within that loop we put the entire Dag like that with the Dag decorator, as well as the call
of the Dag function and remove that one.
And then here we specify the Dag id which is equal to config zero.
Okay.
So this position and at the bottom here we just need to do something like that in order to pass the
rest of the values of the config list.
So this part and just like that you are able to generate two DAGs like a and b with two sets of values.
Let me show you that on the airflow UI.
If you restart your airflow instance, you will see on the DAGs view the two dag dag a and b.
If you click on dag A and click on trigger, you can see the param values as expected, right?
You have 100.
And then if you look at dag B and then click on trigger, this time you have 200 as expected.
Okay.
And if for some reason you are seeing the new Dag as well here, that's because it is still in the airflow
meta database.
And you can just click on that icon in order to delete it, but at this point you are able to generate
multiple DAGs with different configuration values using the Dag decorator.
Keep in mind you don't have to generate your dags in a list like that.
Another way is by creating a function you know for example something like that def make dag and then
you pass the dag id and then the config, and you put all of that within your function.
And again each time you call make dag with your param values and dag id, then you will create the corresponding
Dag.
Okay, so this is another way just by having a function that you call that generates a Dag.
This is known as Dag factory pattern and it is very common in the real world.
Feel free to try to do that as an exercise, but it's very straightforward.
Again, you just put all of your Dag definition within a Python function and you call that Python function.
You pass the corresponding values.
All right.
So that's it about generating DAGs using the Dag decorator and different configuration values.
So I hope you enjoyed that.
I see you for the next video.

--- Mix decorators with operators ---

In this video, I would like to show you how you can mix the task flow decorators and the traditional
operators.
So let's see how to do that.
All right.
So first let's create a new Dag file.
So let's remove the other ones like that.
And then we can create a new Dag file in the DAGs folder that we're going to call my Dag.
And by the way feel free to keep the other Dag files if you want.
But just for clarity, I want to create a new one for you in that video.
Next we're going to create the Dag using the Taskflow API.
So from airflow SDK we import the Dag and task as well as let's say that time to define the start date.
And then we use the Dag decorator with a start date, a schedule let's say daily with one task like
that, that for now just print hello world.
Okay, so nothing crazy.
A very simple data pipeline.
That being said, let's make this data pipeline a little bit more interesting by adding a new variable
API with the following link.
If you go to that link, you will see the current price of the Bitcoin, as you can see right there.
Next we rename my task to fetch Bitcoin price.
And then we change the body of the task with the following two lines of code with import request as
we need request to make an HTTP request to the API.
Then last but not least, we want to extract from Bitcoin and USD to get this value.
And don't forget to change my task here by fetch Bitcoin price.
Okay, so with that, we have one task using the task decorator that fetches the current Bitcoin price.
The next step is to create another task.
But this time we want to use the bash operator.
So to use the bash operator we first need to import it.
So let's do that at the top of the file.
So from airflow dot providers, dot dot dot operators dot bash, we import the bash operator.
And once we have the bash operator right there we can just use it.
So let's create a new task print Bitcoin price using the bash operator.
And then we specify the following task id.
And we can also use the bash command that echo the Xcom that comes from this task.
Fetch Bitcoin price.
Because remember as we return a value here that becomes the Xcom and that Xcom has the Bitcoin price.
And so here we just fetch this Xcom to print it on the standard output.
And last but not least, we need to put that task as the next one to execute after fetch Bitcoin price.
And by the way, if this notation is new for you, this is called Jinja templating.
And this is a powerful concept in airflow that allows you to render values at runtime, but you will
learn more later in the course.
That being said, let me show you how you can better share data between a task using the task API and
the traditional operator, because this is not the most efficient way.
So as we are using a task with the task decorator, one thing we can do here is that instead of returning
the bitcoin price like that, we can simply return the bash command that we want to run right here.
So let's do that.
Here we return a f string with echo and then response.json with the Bitcoin and USD.
Okay.
So this will be the Bitcoin price.
So we can remove that line.
And now if we use the task and put it as a value of the parameter bash command like that, airflow will
automatically infer that this task depends on this one.
So we can remove the dependencies right here.
Okay.
let's not forget to add the simple quotes here.
And now we can take a look at the airflow UI.
If you go under view and click on your Dag, you will see in the graph view your two tasks fetch Bitcoin
price and print Bitcoin price.
And most importantly, you can see that the dependency between those two tasks have been automatically
defined because you share data between those two tasks.
Okay, because we are calling fetch Bitcoin price as a value of the parameter batch command of the bash
operator, feel free to run the Dag.
You will see the bitcoin price in the logs of print Bitcoin price.
Okay, so that's how you can mix a task using the Taskflow API and a task using a traditional operator
just by calling the task.
Using the Taskflow API in a parameter of the traditional operator, airflow will know that there is
a dependency between those two tasks.
Now let me show you the opposite.
When you want to share data that comes from a traditional operator to a task using the Taskflow API.
All right, so maybe you don't know that, but the bash operator returns the last line printed on the
standard output as Xcom by default, which means if you run the Dag and then click on Print Bitcoin
Price and look at the Xcom, you can see here a Xcom with the key return value with the value of the
Bitcoin price.
So we're going to use that value in the next task that we will create using the Taskflow API.
In this new task, we want to add the current market capitalization of the Bitcoin.
So let's create a new task using the task decorator at task.
And then let's call it Bitcoin cap.
And then here we're just going to modify a little bit the API.
So again we import requests and then response equals to request.
And then here we're just going to put the following string include market cap to true.
And so, just like that, we will be able to fetch the market cap of the Bitcoin.
Then we're going to extract the market cap.
So for that we put market cap equals to response.json Bitcoin and then USD market cap.
Then last but not least we want to return a dictionary that has the two values market cap and the Bitcoin
price.
But the question here is how do we fetch the Bitcoin price here from the previous task using the bash
operator, some of you might say something like that.
So basically you create a new parameter here.
Let's call it Bitcoin price.
And then here we just put Bitcoin price.
And finally when we define the dependencies we just need to do add Bitcoin cap.
And then we pass print Bitcoin price as a parameter.
But if you do that, this won't work.
And before showing you the error, make sure that you change this.
Because I made a little mistake right here.
So you put that inside the parentheses.
Otherwise you will receive an error.
Or even better you can use an F string.
So let's do that.
It will be cleaner.
Okay.
So if you trigger the Dag you can see that the dependencies are not correct.
Right.
We want to have print Bitcoin price before add Bitcoin cap.
And most importantly if you click on Add Bitcoin cap you can see in the logs the following error cannot
serialize object of type class type.
So why?
Well because again you are passing the task as a parameter of this task.
And this task expects a value.
But you are giving a task object.
So how can you solve that issue?
Well it is very simple.
Whenever you want to share data between a traditional operator and a task using the task API, you need
to put Dot output.
Dot output is the equivalent of doing something like that.
So t dot x.
And then the task IDs print Bitcoin price.
Okay.
So that's exactly what airflow does behind the scenes.
It is pulling the Xcom that comes from the task.
So here print Bitcoin price.
And then you can get it as a value of the parameter Bitcoin price in the task at Bitcoin cap.
All right.
So let's remove that.
And if you restart your airflow instance or wait a few minutes or even less then go on airflow UI,
you will be able to see that.
Now the dependencies look like that.
So you have fetch Bitcoin price.
Then print Bitcoin price and finally add Bitcoin cap.
And if you click on Add Bitcoin cap and look at the Xcom, you can see that we do have a dictionary
with the values market cap and the Bitcoin price as expected.
Okay, so that's how you can create dependencies between a traditional operator and a task using task
flow.
So just like that, you know exactly how you can mix traditional operators with the Task Flow API.
If for some reason you don't share data between your tasks and you still want to create dependencies,
keep in mind that you can still do something like that.
So fetch bitcoin price and then print Bitcoin price and finally add Bitcoin cap.
And here you put the Bitcoin price.
Okay.
So this is still possible if you again don't share data between your tasks.
Obviously airflow won't be able to define the dependencies for you.
So you will have to explicitly define the dependencies like that.
Okay.
Now as a best practice, I do recommend you to avoid as much as possible mixing traditional operators
and decorators.
Okay, if you can stick to one way or the other, it will be much better and easier for you to understand
and debug your DAGs in my opinion.

--- The new bash operator (much better!) ---

In this video, I would like to give you a quick bonus for the bash operator if you are still using
the traditional bash operator.
Well guess what?
You should stop doing that.
Let me show you what you should do instead.
As you know with Taskflow to define your tasks, you need to use decorators and one of them is the following
one that corresponds to the Python operator.
When you want to execute a Python function as shown right here.
But guess what?
With the bash operator you have the equivalent with at task dot bash, and this one is useful to create
bash statements using Python functions.
And this decorator is especially interesting when you want to run bash commands based on complex Python
logic, including inputs from upstream tasks.
So let me show you an example here.
Instead of doing that, we're going to use the add task decorator.
So right here we put add task and then dot bash.
And just under that we create our Python function print Bitcoin price.
That takes the Bitcoin price as a parameter.
Right.
That's what we get from the previous task here.
And then we just want to print on the standard output the Bitcoin price.
So for that we can return the bash command that we want to run.
And this is the bash command we want to run.
Okay.
So that's it.
It is as simple as that.
Just like that you have successfully created a task using the bash operator behind the scene, but with
the add task bash decorator, you can see that you execute bash commands in a Python function, and
so you have much more flexibility with that.
The last step is to modify the dependencies.
So at the bottom right here print Bitcoin price.
We need to remove dot output.
Because this is available for traditional operators only.
And we are using a decorator now.
So we can remove dot output.
And instead we call print Bitcoin price like that.
And we pass fetch Bitcoin price.
However, remember that before we were passing this bash command to the bash operator to make the dependency
between this task and this one.
But now we don't need to do that.
We just need to pass the Bitcoin price directly.
So let's remove this part and this.
And that's it.
So if you save the file and run the Dag on the airflow UI, if you click on the last task and look at
the logs, you will see for the Bitcoin price, the price of the Bitcoin as expected.
So that's how you should implement a task using the bash operator.
Don't use the traditional bash operator anymore.
The recommended way is to use the task bash decorator instead, because again, you will be able to
make complex logic using Python code in order to execute bash commands, which is much better than with
the traditional operator.

--- Group your tasks with TaskGroups ---

In this video, you will discover a simple but powerful concept in airflow that allows you to make complex
DAGs easier to understand and to debug.
Let's get into it.
This Dag is pretty old, but I think it illustrates well how complex a Dag can be.
And this is just an example.
But here is another one.
So as you can see, you may have a ton of tasks in your DAGs.
And obviously the more tasks you have, the harder it will be for you to navigate in that Dag to understand
the Dag to understand the tasks, and to debug your tasks.
So truly it can become a real nightmare for you to maintain a Dag like that.
Okay, so what is a task group?
Well, a task group is a tool to organize tasks into groups within your DAGs.
So basically when you have multiple tasks that you can logically group together, for example, multiple
tasks that process data or multiple tasks that extract data, then you can group them together.
You can do that.
Using task groups and using task groups allows you to do multiple things.
First, to organize complicated DAGs visually grouping tasks that belong together in the airflow UI
graph view.
Then you can also apply default arguments to set of tasks instead of at the Dag level using Dag parameters.
So you know, in airflow within your Dag, you can define default arguments that will be applied to
all of your tasks.
Well, you can do that, but at the task group level, so that if this set of tasks must have some specific
parameters, you can do that with the task groups.
Next, you can dynamically map over groups of tasks enabling complex dynamic patterns so you don't know
yet about dynamic task mapping.
You will discover that later in the course, but if you do, keep in mind that you can dynamically generate
task groups.
So group of tasks based on some inputs.
So this is a very powerful pattern in airflow.
And last but not least, you can turn task patterns into modules that can be reused across DAGs or airflow
instances.
An example of that.
Imagine that you have a group of tasks that extract data from a source and then process that data.
But this set of tasks is actually common across many different tags.
Instead of re-implementing the same tasks again and again, you can just put those tasks in a task group
and then import that task group in the different DAGs, so that you just reuse the task group as a module
that you can import in any Dag that you need.
This code snippet shows you how to use a task group in airflow.
So basically you import the task group decorator from the airflow SDK.
Then you define the task group with the task group decorator.
And you can also pass a group ID here.
My task group.
The group ID is the unique identifier of your group.
And if you don't pass a group ID then by default it will be the name of the function that the task group
decorates in that case.
TJ then if you look into the function corresponding to your group, you have the tasks that you want
to group together.
Here two tasks T1 and T2 using the empty operator.
And also we define the dependencies in the task group because we have our tasks in that task group.
And last but not least, we need to explicitly call the task group because we are using a decorator.
And so just like that, you visually group the two tasks T1 and T2 together.
An important note about the task IDs of the tasks that are in a task group.
So if we look at T1, for example, you may think that the task ID, the unique identifier of the task
is T1 or task underscore one, because here we specify the task id task underscore one.
Well, that's not true because whenever you have a task in a task group, the task ID of that task becomes
the task group ID dot the task id.
So that means T1 has the following task id my task group dot task underscore one.
And this is important to remember because when you share data between your tasks or when you use a branching
operator, you will need to refer to that task ID.
So keep in mind each time you have a task in a group, the task ID of that task will be the group ID
dot the task ID.
Speaking of sharing data, here is an example of how you can share data between a task and a task group.
So first we have the Dag with a task a value that returns the value 42.
And then if you look at the dependencies, we are passing the task a value to the task group.
And obviously a value returns 42.
So the task group will get the value 42 as this parameter the value.
Then in the task group we have two tasks plus ten and plus 20.
It is important to notice that those two tasks have a parameter, the value and the value here corresponds
to what we will fetch from the parameter of the task group.
So in that case 42.
So as you can see here in the dependencies the value here is equal to 42.
So we pass 42 to the task plus ten.
And then here it will be equal to 52.
And then we pass the value that plus ten returns to the task plus 20.
And so here the value will be 72.
And so at the end the task group will return 72.
So just remember that to share data between a task and a task group you just need to define a parameter
for that task group.
Then you pass the value to the parameter of the task group.
And don't forget to define the parameters for the task that are in the task group.
If you don't put the value here okay, And you decide to use the value directly because you may say,
okay, I have the value here as a parameter in the task group, so I can use it directly in my tasks.
Well, that won't work, okay.
The value here does not exist for the task.
Okay.
The task does not see the value that comes from here.
So that's why you have to define the parameter to the task as well.
All right.
So let's modify our Dag to make it more interesting and fetch different currencies.
So what we can do is create a new task that we're going to call fetch bitcoin.
Okay.
Like the previous one.
And then we import requests.
And then we can type response equals to request dot get the API.
But this time we're just going to copy the value here.
And you will understand why in a second.
Okay.
Like that.
And finally we return Response.json and then Bitcoin USD.
Then we can copy this task, paste it here.
And now we want to do the same but for a different currency.
So in that case Ethereum.
And then again we change Ethereum right here and Ethereum right here as well.
And then let's do that for another currency.
But this time it will be Solana.
So again we can change by Solana for Ethereum like that okay.
So we have three new tasks.
Fetch Bitcoin, fetch Ethereum and fetch Solana.
We can remove that task okay.
We don't need it anymore.
And now as we have three tasks that pretty much do the same logical thing extracting data from a source.
We can group them together.
But before doing that I would like to show you the Dag.
So for now we are not going to create any task group.
So let's remove all of that and then call the task at the end.
So fetch bitcoin and then fetch Ethereum and then fetch Solana.
And actually we want to do that in parallel.
So we don't have to define the dependencies like that.
So save the file and let's take a look at the airflow UI.
If you go on the DAGs view and then click on your Dag, you can see in the graph view the tasks fetch,
Solana, Bitcoin and Ethereum.
So the question is how can you group those tasks together?
Well obviously you will have to use the task group decorator.
So let's do that in your Dag.
At the top you can import the task group decorator like that from the airflow SDK.
Okay.
And then here you define the task group with the task decorator.
And let's call that task group fetch crypto prices.
So that's why we define this function.
And in that function corresponding to your task group you have to put all of your tasks and the dependencies.
So make sure that the indentation is correct.
Okay.
And once you have that you just need to call fetch crypto prices.
The task group at the end in your Dag.
And if you save the file and go back to the airflow UI on the DAGs view, select your Dag, my Dag,
and then on the graph view, you will be able to see your task group fetch crypto prices with three
tasks.
If you click right here, that expands the task group and you can see the tasks in it.
Fetch Solana, fetch Bitcoin and fetch Ethereum.
Notice that since we don't have any dependencies between those tasks, they will all run concurrently.
All right.
At this point, you know how to group your tasks together using task groups.
And it's pretty straightforward right?
But let's move one step forward here.
We're going to return all the prices that we fetch into a dictionary.
So let's remove that and return a a dictionary in the task group.
Okay.
So that's what the task group will return a dictionary.
And that dictionary has BTC with the value that comes from fetch bitcoin and then ETH that comes from
fetch Ethereum.
And same thing for Solana okay.
So basically here we return the prices that all of those tasks return.
And now once we have the prices we can create a second task group that will process the data the prices.
So let's create another task group right after the first one.
Okay.
Here task group we're going to call it process data.
And it takes prices that come from the first task group fetch crypto prices.
So let's remove that for now.
And then in that task group we're going to create two tasks.
The first one is Calculate average.
And then we pass the prices.
And here we just want to return the average with prices BTC, ETH and Solana that we divide by three.
Right.
So pretty simple.
And then we create another task.
This one uses the bash operator.
Just because we want to print the average on the standard output.
So we can just do something like return.
The average price is average.
Next we define the dependencies between those tasks.
So we want to run calculate average first.
So let's create a new variable average equals to calculate average.
And then the prices.
And finally we want to print the average okay.
So with that we can create one last task.
So let's call it something very simple right.
Let's say final report just to say that.
the data pipeline has been successfully executed.
So let's say something.
Crypto.
Data pipeline completed successfully.
All right.
So at this point you have two task groups.
The first one is fetch crypto prices with those three tasks okay.
And that task group returns the prices that you can see right there for BTC, ETH and Solana.
And then you have a second task group process data that uses the prices from the first task group,
fetch crypto prices, and then we calculate the average using the prices.
And finally we print the average on the standard output.
So really the last step here is to define the dependencies between those task groups.
And it's pretty straightforward.
Again you just need to run fetch crypto prices first.
So let's create a new variable prices with fetch crypto prices.
And then we want to run process data.
We pass the prices and then we can just print final report like that and that's it.
Okay.
So if you save the file and take a look on the airflow UI, either you refresh the page or you go to
the view and then you click on your dag my dag and look at the graph view.
You will be able to see your beautiful data pipeline with two task groups, fetch crypto prices and
process data.
And the last task final report.
Most importantly, you can expand the first task group.
So as you can see here, fetch Solana, Ethereum and Bitcoin and you can see that they all have dependencies
with the second task group.
So if you expand it as well calculate average and print average.
So you can clearly see here that calculate average needs.
The tasks fetch Solana, Ethereum and Bitcoin to run in the task group process data.
So let's run this data pipeline to see if it works.
You can click on trigger and then trigger again.
Let's wait a little bit.
You can see here that all the tasks have been successfully executed.
And we have an error in print average.
So let's take a look at that.
You can see here in the log we just need to add equal.
And then here two simple quotes like that.
And if you try again by selecting the task and then clear the task instance right here.
And you click on confirm.
Wait a little bit.
And now you can see that the data pipeline has been successfully executed.
And you have the average price right here.
That's it for the basics of task groups.
Keep in mind a task group is super useful whenever you need to group tasks together, and you want to
better organize your data pipeline.
Ultimately, that will help you to better visualize and maintain and also debug your DAGs on airflow.
So don't hesitate to use this concept as much as you need.

--- Default arguments to DAGs and Taskgroups ---

When you have many tasks in your DAGs, it is pretty common to apply default arguments so that you don't
have to explicitly define those arguments for every task again and again.
And that's exactly what I'm going to show you right now.
All right.
As you already probably know, you can define many parameters for your tasks.
For example, let's say that you want to receive an email as soon as fetch Bitcoin fails.
Then you can do that email on failure and then you set that parameter to true.
Obviously you will have to define the email address.
So that could be, you know, test or obviously your email address.
In that case you can also define the number of retries for a specific task.
So let's say you want to retry that task twice before getting it in failure and so on.
So there are many parameters that you can define for your tasks.
However, when you have many tasks, you don't want to explicitly define the same parameter again and
again.
For example, by default in airflow, the retries parameter is set to zero, which means as soon as
a task fails, well, that task fails.
It is not retried automatically.
So in that case, you will have to put the parameter retries to two, for example to every task like
that.
So for this one and then for Fetch Solana as well, and so on.
So this is definitely not something that you want to do.
So instead this is where you can use the default parameters.
For that.
You can go at the Dag object.
And here you define another parameter which is the default arguments.
And that parameter takes a dictionary a dictionary of arguments that you want to apply to all of your
tasks by default.
So for example, if we put retries to two, retries to two will be applied to all tasks in my Dag,
which means I can remove this this as well.
And obviously this one as well okay.
Because now all of my tasks will be retried twice before failing.
So this is pretty cool right?
Now one thing that I want to show you is what if you want to apply default arguments to a subset of
tasks?
For example, if we look into the tasks in the task group, fetch crypto prices, we are fetching prices
using this API.
And because we are executing all of those tasks at the same time, or at least concurrently, that means
we may overload the API.
We may get an error because of the API rate limit.
So in order to fix that, we can execute one task at a time.
And so in this case, you don't want to execute one task at a time for every task in your Dag.
You just want to execute one task at a time for the tasks that are in this task group.
Okay, so for example, if you have other tasks that could be executed in parallel outside of this task
group, you want to be able to execute them in parallel.
But for the tasks in that task group, you want to execute them one at a time.
So in order to do that, you need to apply default arguments to this task group.
How very simple.
The task group decorator takes a default argument parameter.
So here you can define the default args parameter.
And again exactly like for the Dag object it expects a dictionary of arguments.
Here we're going to define a parameter called pool with the name fetch crypto prices.
Okay.
So we're going to keep the same name as the task group.
And if you don't know what a pool is well it is time to discover this concept.

--- Running tasks on Airflow isn't unlimited ---

A concept in airflow that I think too many people don't know about.
But very useful is the concept of pulse.
And as you will see, pools are not only for swimming.
They might be very useful for your data pipelines as well.
Let's dive into it.
One of the benefits of airflow is that it is built to scale.
However, horizontal scalability brings some challenges and one of them is to control how many tasks
run in parallel.
Because depending on your infrastructure or the resource that you reach, you may not be able to run
as many tasks in parallel as you would like.
So, for example, you might have many tasks that interact with the same API or database, and you don't
want to overwhelm with requests.
And that's why you need something like pools.
Pools allow you to limit parallelism for an arbitrary set of tasks, allowing you to control when your
tasks are run.
In fact, if you go to the airflow UI and then go to admin and then pools, you will be able to see
that there is a default pool with 128 slots, and you can see that all of those slots right now are
available.
They are open.
So what happens to your default pool when a task runs?
To show you that, I'm going to remove the default arguments here so that we use the default pool.
And then in the fetch Bitcoin task I'm going to import time and then put a sleep to let's say five minutes
then back to the airflow UI.
If we trigger the Dag okay.
And wait a little bit we can see that fetch Bitcoin is running.
But if we go back to admin and then pools you can see that now right here there is one slot that it
is actually taken by this task.
And that slot has the state running.
So that's I want you to remember is that each time a task runs that takes a slot in the default pool.
And that's what again you can see right here.
So you have one slot that is not available anymore because it has two kids to run.
And then you still have 127 open slots for running other tasks.
Concretely, that means you can run up to 128 tasks in parallel by default.
Obviously, you can increase or decrease the number of slots for your default pool, but that ultimately
depends on your infrastructure.
Now, as soon as the Fetch Bitcoin price completes, you will see that this slot will be available again.
So if we refresh the page you can see that now it is gone.
Okay.
So again remember that each time a task runs that takes a slot in the default pool.
With that in mind, that means if you define a pool with one slot, then you will be able to execute
only one task at a time because that pool has one slot, and so the other tasks using that pool will
have to wait for a slot to be available.
And that's exactly what we want for our task group, since we want to execute one task at a time in
the task group.
Fetch crypto prices so we do not overwhelm the API.
That's what we need.
We need to create a new pool, fetch crypto prices with one slot.
So all the tasks in this task group will be executed sequentially, one after the other.
So let's do that.
We just need to copy the name of the pool here.
And then in the airflow UI we add a pool with the same name.
And now the slot will be one.
And we can add a description like this pool is used for the fetch crypto price tasks.
And then click on save.
Then with this new pool, we can just go to the tags and then click on our Dag.
Make sure that you are on the grid view, then trigger the Dag and if you carefully take a look you
will see that fetch Bitcoin runs first and then Ethereum and finally Solana.
And that's exactly the behavior that we wanted.
We wanted to execute one task at a time.
And again, because we have a pool with one slot, we are able to do that while the other tasks of the
Dag will be able to execute in parallel.
And that's the beauty of the pools.
They are very simple to use, but powerful because they allow you to control the parallelism of a set
of tasks.
Now I would like to show you something else.
Imagine that among those three tasks you actually want to execute Ethereum first, because for some
reason Ethereum is more important to you than Bitcoin and Solana.
So you absolutely want to run this task in first.
How can you do that?
Well, this is where you can use another parameter which is the priority weights.
By default every task has the same priority weights, which means they are equal.
They will be executed in parallel if they can.
Otherwise it is in the random order.
But if we set a higher value for the priority weights of a specific task, then this task will run first.
So let me show you how.
Let's say we want to run this task in first.
In that case we just need to set the parameter priority weight.
And let's put 100.
But it could be anything above one.
So now we have that if we save the file and then take a look at the airflow UI, let's trigger the Dag
again.
And you can see that this time Ethereum runs first and then it will be Bitcoin or Solana in that case
Bitcoin.
And finally it will be Solana.
So you see that is very powerful.
When you start combining the pools with the priority weights, you can truly control the parallelism
of your tasks and also the order in which they will be executed if you haven't defined any dependencies
between them.
All right.
So last but not least, I would like to give you some limitations regarding the pools.
So first thing first.
Each task can only be assigned to a single pool.
Okay.
So for example here.
Fetch Bitcoin is assigned to the fetch crypto prices.
If you want to change that pool.
You can do it by assigning the pool parameter to another one.
So let's say default pool.
But again you cannot pass a list of pools.
That's not possible.
Also pools are meant to.
Control parallelism for task instances.
If you need to place limits on the number of concurrent diagrams for a single Dag or all DAGs, you
will need to use different parameters, such as the max active runs or the core Max active runs per
Dag parameters, but this is for the DAGs.
All right.
And also remember that pools can be useful if you have multiple teams using the same airflow instance
to better organize the resources.
You may definitely create a pool per team, so that one team does not take all the slots available in
your airflow instance, which could block the other team's.

--- Reuse tasks like a pro ---

At this point, you have seen quite a few features with the task API, and now it is time to refactor
the code and I will show you one way of reusing your tasks that you probably don't know, and you will
find that very helpful.
So let's dive into it.
All right.
So first we can remove the bash operator that we don't use anymore.
And then if you take a look at the tasks that we have in the Fetch crypto prices task group, they look
pretty much the same, right?
I mean, if you look at the code of every task, we always do the same thing.
The only difference is the API and most specifically the parameter of the API we use.
So in that case here it is Bitcoin.
And then here it is Ethereum and then finally Solana.
So you know it's not that great to actually write the same code again and again.
And that's why I want to show you one way of defining one task and then reusing that task, but with
different parameters.
So let's do it.
First let's cut the fetch bitcoin task like that.
And then we're going to put it outside of the tag here okay.
Obviously make sure that the indentation is correct.
Otherwise you will have some errors.
And then here we want to modify this URL in order to change the currency that we want to pass to the
API.
So for that we just need to define a parameter here.
So let's put currency.
And then here we just add a f for f string.
And finally we put currency here okay.
So that now each time we call this task we can pass the currency that we want.
So Solana Bitcoin and so on.
And then automatically we will fetch the corresponding price with the API.
So let's rename fetch Bitcoin by fetch currency.
And then we can remove this URL as well.
And now here we want to put currency as well.
So at this point the task is ready, right?
This is the code that we reuse in every task to fetch different currencies.
But now we have the code at a single place.
Next the question is how can I reuse that task in my task group for every currency?
Bitcoin, Ethereum and Solana.
Well, one way to do it is by using override.
So let me show you how.
Basically you just need to copy the task.
So fetch currency and then here you call it fetch currency dot override.
And here you can pass some parameters that tasks expect.
So for example the task ID the pool the number of retries and so on.
Here we're going to define the task ID because this is the unique identifier of our task.
And in that case here it is fetch bitcoin.
Okay.
And the currency is Bitcoin.
And just like that, you are able to reuse the task fetch currency that has the task ID by default fetch
currency.
But because we use override then we're going to change the task ID to fetch bitcoin.
And we pass the parameter bitcoin.
And we can do the same for the two other tasks.
So here again we call fetch currency but this time for Ethereum.
And again for Solana.
And just like that you have successfully refactored your code.
Last but not least, we still need to return the prices that those tasks fetch.
And for that we can return again the same dictionary as before.
Like that.
And then here we're going to put BTC with this task using override.
And we're going to do the same for Ethereum and Solana.
And that's it.
Okay, so I think we agree that this is pretty cool, right?
Much cleaner than before.
Last but not least, remember that we wanted to execute Ethereum first so we can still use the same
parameter as before which is priority.
Wait.
And then we're going to put it at 100 okay.
So just remember that override is amazing.
Basically in the real world what I recommend you to do is to create a set of tasks that you reuse pretty
often, but with different parameters, and just put those tasks in a file or in a package in Python
package, so that you can import them back into your DAGs and use override in your DAGs in order to
pass the parameters that you want.
And that is pretty nice, because all of a sudden you have a library of tasks that it is available to
all of your DAGs, which increase the consistency and the maintainability of your data pipelines.

--- Correctly manage external resources within your DAGs ---

In this video, you will discover the best way of managing resources in your airflow DAGs.
So without further ado, let's get started.
Before discovering the best way of managing resources in airflow DAGs, let's discover one of the most
common issues that may cost you a lot of money.
So imagine that you have this pipeline with three tasks A, B, and C, and then maybe A creates a EMR
cluster or, you know, whatever resources you need in order to complete the tasks in your Dag.
So task A succeeds, which is pretty nice.
And then you need to run task B.
So task B runs in order to process some data in the EMR cluster that you have created just before in
task A, but for some reason task B fails.
Well, what happens now is that task C has the state upstream failed.
And so at some point the Dag run will fail as well.
And basically you still have this EMR cluster that you have set up to complete the task be that keeps
running and that will cost you some money if you forget to release that cluster.
Or even worse, if you rerun the Dag, you will create another cluster.
And now you have two clusters running instead of one.
So the question is, how do you ensure that whatever happens in task B, the resources that you create
will be always released?
Well, this is where you need a concept called setup and teardown tasks.
The way setup and teardown tasks work is pretty simple, but rather powerful.
Let me explain.
So first you will identify a task that creates resources as a setup task.
So for example here since A creates an EMR cluster, you will identify in your Dag code that this task
is a setup task because it creates a EMR cluster.
Obviously you can have more than one set of tasks and then you will identify another task.
So let's say task C as a teardown task.
And the goal of that teardown task is to delete the resource that you create in the setup task.
So in that case the EMR cluster.
So concretely imagine that the Dag runs task A succeeds.
And so the cluster is running.
And then task B fails for some reason.
But now because you have task C identified as a teardown task.
Task C runs regardless of the state of task B.
And so the EMR cluster is successfully removed.
And you have freed the resources that you created in the setup task as a formal definition.
Remember that setup and teardown tasks ensure that the necessary resources to run an airflow task are
setup before a task is executed and that those resources are turned down.
After the task has completed, regardless of any task failures.
And basically setup and teardown tasks are useful whenever you need to manage a spark cluster to run
heavy workloads or manage compute resources to train a machine learning model.
I mean, each time you need to create resources from an airflow Dag, in my opinion, you should use
setup and teardown tasks just to ensure that those resources will be always deleted before updating
our Dag with the setup and teardown tasks.
Let's play with them so we can create a new Dag file.
So let's call it Test.py.
Again, this is just to play with setup and teardown tasks.
And here we're going to import from airflow SDK the Dag and task.
And let's create a very simple data pipeline that actually has no parameters.
And then we create the test function that corresponds to our pipeline.
And then we call the Dag here.
And we can create three tasks.
So let's say my or actually a that does nothing.
And then B as well as C that also prints on the standard output and return the values.
And then we can define the dependencies like that.
Okay.
So this is a very very simple data pipeline.
If you look at it on the UI you will see the three tasks A, B and C.
Now let's add the setup and teardown tasks.
There are two ways to turn tasks into setup and teardown tasks.
The first way is by using the as setup and as teardown methods on task API tasks or traditional operators.
So let me show you that basically here we want to say that A is a setup task.
So the first step let's remove the dependencies for now is to call from task a dot as setup.
And just like that you will mark the task as a setup task.
In fact, if we take a look at the airflow UI, you can see this little arrow next to the name of the
task.
And that indicates this task is a setup task after we have defined the setup task.
The next step is to define the task, the task that will clean the resources.
And in that case we want to make see as teardown task.
So for that we can call see and then the method as teardown.
And that won't work.
Indeed when you specify a teardown task that teardown task must have at least one upstream task.
Otherwise you will get an error.
So let's add B right here.
And then we define the dependencies like that.
Now if you save the file and take a look at the airflow UI, this time you can see task B which is upstream
to task C.
But most importantly you have this little arrow next to see that indicates this task is a teardown task.
All right.
So at this point we have configured a setup and teardown tasks.
But they are not truly connected with each other, right?
You don't see any dependency between A and C, because remember, the goal of a teardown task is to
clear the resources created by a set of tasks.
So we can expect a dependency between A and C.
However, this is also an interesting use case because if a teardown task has no associated set of tasks,
well, in that case, the teardown task will always run once all upstream tasks.
So in that case, B have completed running independently of whether they were successful or not.
In other words, as long as B completes, regardless of its status, C will always run afterwards.
And by the way, you can have a set of tasks without an associated teardown task.
If you define a set of tasks without a teardown task.
Everything downstream of the setup task is considered in its scope, and so it will cause the setup
task to rerun each time you clear one of its downstream tasks.
To indicate that the teardown task C clears the resources created by the task.
A it's pretty simple.
We just need to create a new variable here.
So let's say set up a equals to the task A.
And then we pass setup A as a value of teardown.
And there is actually an explicit parameter that you can use which is setups like that.
And so if you save the file and take a look at the airflow UI, you will see this special dependency
between C and A.
And each time you use setup and teardown tasks you will have this kind of dependencies.
Now it looks a bit weird because what you want to do is to run a, which is the setup task, and then
B and finally C, which is the teardown task.
So let's modify the dependencies.
So we just need to setup A upstream to B.
And now we can clearly see that A will create resources that B needs to run.
And finally C is the task that will clear the resources created by a.
That's why you can see this dependency right here.
And by the way, if you wonder if you can have multiple setup tasks, yes you can.
That's why you have setups with a S right here.
You can pass a list of setup tasks.
All right.
So that's it for the basics.
We can just delete the test file.
We don't need it anymore.
And we're going to update our beautiful Dag in order to use setup and teardown tasks.
The goal is to write for each crypto prices.
So Bitcoin, Ethereum and Solana the price that we fetch from the API into a file.
And so the setup task will be in charge of creating the folder where the files will be stored, and
the teardown task will be in charge of deleting that folder.
Now to implement the setup and teardown tasks, we're not going to use the as setup and as teardown
methods.
Instead, we're going to use the decorators.
Remember I told you that you have two ways for creating setup and teardown tasks.
And this is the second way.
So let's import Setup and teardown at the top.
Next we can create the setup task in the Dag as the first task of the Dag.
So let's put setup here which is the decorator.
And then the task is called create workspace.
That takes two parameters dag id and run id that are automatically provided by airflow.
As soon as the task runs.
And then init we import OS.
Then from pathlib we import path and then we create the following path which is slash temp slash airflow
workspaces and we add the dag id and the run ID.
Then we can create the folder with mkdir earth.
And finally we return the path to that folder.
And the return type of this task is a string as well Okay.
So this is the first task.
And this is the setup task.
It creates a folder.
Airflow workspaces in the folder tmp where we will store the files with the crypto prices.
I almost forgot but you cannot access the ID directly like that.
So let's use a different way to.
Obtain those values.
We can pass context here and then we change the id by context Dag.
Then dag id and finally the run id like that.
Now we have the setup task ready.
The next step is to create the task.
The task that will remove this folder.
So let's go just under the setup task.
And here we use teardown.
And we pass the Onfailure failed Dag run parameter that we set to true which tells to airflow that if
the teardown task fails, then the Dag run should fail as well.
By default it is not the case.
If the teardown task fails, then the Dag run can still succeed.
Whether you should set this parameter to true or not depends on your use case on your workflow.
Keep in mind that the task can be anywhere in your workflow and you can have multiple tasks, so ultimately
it depends on what you are trying to achieve.
In our case, we're going to set this parameter to true.
Then under the teardown decorator we define the task.
So here it is cleanup workspace that takes a path.
And then we import this library.
And finally we call it in order to delete the folder.
Like that.
Okay.
For now we're going to comment that line just to you know check that whatever we did here in Create
Workspace Works.
At this point you have successfully implemented both the setup and teardown tasks.
Next, as we want to write the prices that we fetch from the API into files, we need to create the
corresponding task.
So at the top of the Dag file.
After fetch currency, let's create a new task called write price that has three parameters currency,
price and path that returns a string.
And then we import JSON and we write the following dictionary with the currency and the price into the
currency JSON file.
So for each cryptocurrency we will end up with BTC, JSON with the currency and the price in it eth
JSON with again the currency and the price in it, and so on.
With this task, we can go after the first task group.
So after fetch crypto prices and create a new task group.
That we're going to call write prices.
That takes two parameters prices and a workspace, which is the folder where we want to store the files.
And then in that task group, we will return a dictionary like we do for the first task group with path
BTC equals to the following value.
So right price override.
And then we pass the task id right.
Bitcoin and the currency Bitcoin prices BTC with the workspace okay.
So all of those parameters to the right price task that we have created.
And we do the same for ETH and Solana okay.
It's pretty much exactly what we did for fetch crypto prices but using a different task right?
Price.
Let's not forget to change the parameter path here to workspace okay?
So make sure that you do that and do it as well for the right price task right here.
Okay.
And then let's go back to the bottom of the Dag.
And now we have All of that ready?
The final step is to define the dependencies at the bottom.
So let's remove the dependencies here.
And then first we want to execute the setup task.
So create a new variable W.S. for workspace.
And we call create workspace.
Then one thing you can do is to use a context manager with.
So with W.S. which is the setup task.
And then you define a dependency with the task cleanup workspace.
And in the cleanup workspace you pass W.S. okay.
So that tells airflow that the task cleanup workspace is linked to the setup task create workspace.
Then within that context manager you can define the dependencies.
So price is equals to fetch crypto prices then writes equals to write prices.
And you pass prices as well as the workspace.
Okay.
The folder where you want to store the files that have the prices.
And then you create another variable.
Processed equals to process data.
You pass the prices that come from fetch crypto prices.
And last but not least you create a list.
And here you pass processed and then list with right dot values.
And finally final report.
And because we set W.S. as the setup task of the task cleanup workspace, we don't even have to explicitly
set the dependency like that.
So we can remove this because airflow knows that cleanup workspace has a dependency with W.S..
Okay.
So just a quick note.
This might be a little bit weird for you, but it's actually very useful.
So without the star and then list and then the right dot that values.
If you just put right like that, you will end up with a dictionary, right?
This dictionary.
But that doesn't work okay.
You will get an error with airflow telling you that you cannot have basically a dictionary as a task
and you cannot create the dependencies.
But because we explored that dictionary into a list, that list contains x comma args.
So basically it's like you are saying all the tasks in right values are in this list of tasks.
And so they are all upstream to final report.
Okay.
So basically if you just put writes that returns a dictionary that you cannot set as a dependency of
final report, but because we use write dot values and then we explode the list.
That is like if we were putting each task in the task group, write prices in that list and so they
become upstream to final report.
Don't hesitate to pause the video now and listen again what I said.
But this is super powerful.
All right.
With all of that, the last step is to change the name of the Dag.
We are not going to call it my Dag anymore.
Let's call it crypto Dag.
Right.
Because it's a better name.
And then let's save the file.
And at this point I recommend you to restart your airflow instance.
So if you are using the CLI in the terminal type astro dev restart and then wait until your instance
is up and running again.
And if you are using Docker compose, you can still type docker compose done and then docker compose
up d.
That being said, if you go on the airflow UI, you should be able to see the crypto Dag.
If not, take a look at the code that I share with you under that video to make sure that you haven't
done any mistakes.
And then if you click on the Dag, you can see here in the graph view the final version of your Dag.
So first you have Create workspace which is a setup task as shown by the little arrow here.
And then you have one task group which is fetch crypto prices.
That fetch all the prices for the cryptos that we are interested on.
So for example Solana Bitcoin and then Ethereum using the API.
And then if you expand write prices here, we're going to write all the prices that we fetch from the
API into different files Solana, Bitcoin and Ethereum.
Then we also process the prices right.
As you can see here we calculate the average and we print the average on the standard output.
And we do that in parallel than writing the prices in files.
And finally we have the final report and the cleanup workspace that deletes the folder that we created
at the beginning in the setup task.
Remember that this cleanup workspace task is the teardown tasks.
So with all of that, let's verify that it works so we can trigger the Dag right here.
And wait until it completes.
So you can see that the setup task works.
Then we're going to fetch the prices.
We have successfully right the Ethereum price into its file.
And after a few minutes you will see that all the tasks have been successfully executed.
Now let's take a look at the files if they exist or not.
So for that you open Docker Desktop and then look for the scheduler Docker container and you go to exec.
And here you type slash bin bash.
Then if you type RLS slash GMP you should see airflow workspaces which means the setup task has successfully
created the folder Airflow Workspaces.
So let's see if we have the files in it slash GMP airflow workspaces than the run ID so Manuel.
And then we have the three files.
Bitcoin.
Ethereum and Sonata.
Let's see if we have something in those files.
So let's say bitcoin JSON and then cat here.
And we can see the price right there.
As expected.
So last but not least we can verify if the teardown task works.
And for that you can just go back to your Dag code, uncomment this line and then run the Dag again.
And if you check the Docker container, hopefully you shouldn't be able to see any files because the
teardown task deletes the Airflow Workspaces folder.
So that's it about this video.
I know it was quite long one, but at this point you have a fully functional data pipeline that uses
many Taskflow API features.
And most importantly, you know how to correctly manage resources that you create in your airflow DAGs
using setup and teardown tasks.

--- The different ways of scheduling DAGs ---

Airflow brings many different ways for scheduling your data pipelines, and in this video, I would
like to give you a very high level overview of the different possibilities you have, because there
are many and some of them are super powerful.
But basically after that video, we will dive deep into each one of those possibilities and at the end
of the session, scheduling will have no secrets for you.
Let's dive in.
The first and the most common way of scheduling your data pipelines is time based scheduling.
Basically, it's when you define an interval of time at which you want to run your data pipeline.
For example, every day at midnight, once in a week, once in a month, and so on.
For time based schedule data pipelines, airflow has two options.
The first one is by using a cron expression, and a cron expression is a string consisting of 6 or 7
subexpressions fields that describe individual details of the schedule.
And if you don't know what cronies are just.
It is a command line utility, which is a job scheduler on Unix like operating system.
Now a cron expression looks like that.
And I'm pretty sure you already know that, right?
But for example here, if you use that cron expression in your Dag, you are saying that you want to
run it every day at 4 a.m. and five minutes.
That's what you can see here.
In addition to the cron expressions, you can use timedelta.
Objects.
And if you want to schedule your Dag on a particular cadence like hourly, every five minutes, and
so on, rather than at a specific time like you can do with cron expressions, then a Timedelta object
is what you need.
Again, you will discover that later in the course.
Then after time based scheduling, you have data aware scheduling.
The idea of data aware scheduling is that whenever you have a task in a data pipeline that updates an
asset or you know some data that triggers a downstream data pipeline.
So, for example, you have this dag dag A that has a task in it, and that task updates, let's say
a file okay.
So this is a file like txt.
And because that task updates this file txt that triggers another Dag b.
And so this is data where you trigger your data pipeline based on data updates.
And this is pretty powerful.
Now in addition to data aware scheduling and this is the last one, you have event driven scheduling.
And this one is pretty new.
It's from airflow 3.0.
And it is super interesting.
Imagine that you have a message queue like Kafka or Amazon SQS.
The idea is as soon as you have, for example, an app, let's say a front end that sends messages to
your queue, to your message queue, that triggers automatically your data pipeline.
Okay.
So for example, if your front end sends, let's say, five messages into your queue, then automatically
it triggers five different DAGs.
And this is event driven scheduling.
Now you can truly trigger data pipelines based on events that comes from outside of your airflow instance.
And you can imagine all the possibilities you have with that.
So that's it about the three ways that you have for scheduling your data pipelines.
Under each one of those, you have some additional options that we will deep dive into in the rest of
the section.

--- The basics but... important ---

This video.
In this video, I'm gonna give you a quick reminder about how airflow schedules data pipeline and more
importantly, you will know how airflow schedules data pipeline today in airflow 3.0, which is different
than it used to be.
So let's get into it.
Imagine that you have a data pipeline that runs every day at midnight.
The first Dag run will have the following data interval.
So data interval starts January 1st, 2025 and data interval end January 2nd, 2025.
Now this diagram will be triggered on January 2nd, 2025 for this data interval.
And it will have the following logical date.
In previous versions of airflow, that logical date was called the execution date okay, but this is
deprecated.
Moving on to the second diagram, this one will run for the following data interval.
So you have that interval start January 2nd, 2025 and that interval end January 3rd, 2025.
And again the second diagram will be triggered on January 3rd, 2025.
And it will have the following logical date January 2nd, 2025.
Again, that's how it used to work in airflow before 3.0, and that was causing a lot of confusion,
right?
Because if your Dag is supposed to run every day at midnight, then you just expect that the first Dag
run will be triggered on January 1st, 2025 at midnight, and then the second run will be executed on
January 2nd, 2025 at midnight.
Right?
And not one day after.
Well guess what?
This is over in airflow 3.0.
Now it works exactly as you would expect it to work.
So that means your Dag will be triggered on January 1st, 2025, as expected.
Then the second Dagrun will run on January 2nd, 2025.
As expected, this behavior is controlled by two airflow settings airflow scheduler create cron data
intervals, and airflow Scheduler create delta that are intervals.
The first one applies when you use a cron expression to schedule your data pipeline, and the second
one is applied when you use a Timedelta object to schedule your data pipeline, and by default, those
two settings are set to false.
So if we focus on the first one by default, your first Dagrun runs on January 1st, 2025 and has the
logical date January 1st, 2025.
If you want to go back to the previous behavior in airflow two dot x, then you set that parameter to
false.
And in that case, now the first Dagrun will run on January 2nd, 2025 for this data interval and will
have the logical date January 1st, 2025.
And same thing for the second airflow setting.
If you use a Timedelta object and you want to go back to the previous behavior, then you just need
to set that setting to true.
So just keep in mind if you want to keep data intervals like you used to have, you can go back to that
previous behavior.
But otherwise I recommend you to stick to the new behavior, which in my opinion makes more sense.
But now let's see that in action.
To illustrate the current behavior, let's create a new data pipeline.
So in the folder DAGs create a new Dag file and let's call it schedule dot pie.
Then we're going to import the Dag decorator from SDK as well as the task decorator.
Then we create a very simple Dag with the name schedule.
And that data pipeline has a start date.
So let's say January 1st 2025.
And a schedule to daily.
So every day at midnight.
Then we create a task.
And that task is extremely simple.
So let's call it my task.
And it has three parameters that are interval start which is a DateTime object, that interval end which
is a DateTime object as well, and logical date which is a DateTime as well.
Okay.
And you can set those parameters to none because there will be automatically provided by airflow.
Then let's print the data interval, start the interval end and the logical date.
Then we call the task and we call the Dag.
Okay so very simple.
Then we need to import the datetime object.
So here type from palolem import datetime.
And let's set the parameter to true as we want to run any missing Dag run before today and then save
the Dag.
And so now let's see what we get on the airflow UI.
So for that in the terminal make sure that your airflow instance is running.
You can verify your Docker desktop.
So if you go to the dashboard and you don't see any containers like that, then you need to run the
command Astro dev start and then wait a little bit until airflow is up and running.
Let's after a few minutes, you should land on this page.
If you go to the DAGs, you should see your Dag right here schedule.
So if you click on it right now, you don't have any runs, right?
So let's trigger that data pipeline.
And for that you just need to turn on the toggle here and then refresh the page.
And as you can see, you already have a lot of diagrams.
You can pose your Dag by turn off this toggle.
And let's take a look at the runs.
Pick the first one that you see.
Let's say this one, and then go to the details.
Right here.
You have the logical date and the logical date.
As we are using the default behavior of airflow, 3.0 corresponds to the date at which this specific
dagrun was triggered.
And it also corresponds to the data interval start and the data interval end.
Because remember, with the default behavior of airflow 3.0, there is no data intervals okay.
So that's why you are seeing the same date right here corresponding to the logical date.
Then you have the run type indicating that this diagram was scheduled rather than triggered manually,
or maybe triggered through the rest API.
Then you have the start timestamp and the end timestamp corresponding to the actual timestamps at which
this specific dagrun was triggered and finished, and you can see that those dates do not match with
what you have in the data interval start and data interval end.
And if you wonder why.
Well, that's because this Dag run was automatically triggered for a past date, right?
Remember that in the code we set catch up to true.
And so we are catching up Dag runs that haven't been triggered in the past until now.
Then let's take a look at the logs of my tasks.
So if you click on that task and then go to the logs, you can see here you have the date interval start
the data interval end.
And the logical date or dates are the same.
And again that is expected with the new behavior in airflow 3.0.
Now let's modify that behavior to go back to the previous one in airflow two dot x.
Back to your code editor.
Open dot env and then export the following environment variable to modify create cron data intervals
under the section scheduler in airflow.
And then you set it to true.
And now you save the file and you restart your airflow instance.
So Astro Dev restart once airflow is up and running again, let's trigger a new Dag run for Dag schedule.
So here you click on that button and then trigger.
And then click on the Dag and select the last Dag run that you have.
So this one and you should have a little icon right here.
Then details.
You can see that this time the data interval start is different than the data interval.
And you have one day between the data interval start and the data interval end as the schedule of this
data pipeline is daily.
So if you have an application that requires a data interval, then going back to the previous behavior
in airflow with this setting set to true is what you need.
Otherwise, I recommend you to stick with the new behavior in airflow 3.0, because it's just more logical
and easier to understand.
Last but not least, keep in mind that if in your Dag you need to fetch some data for a specific date
according to when your Dag runs, then you should refer to the logical date only as you truly don't
need the data interval start or the data interval end, because again they are the same date.

--- Cron or Timedelta? ---

At the end of this video, you will finally understand the difference between a cron expression and
a Timedelta object, and most importantly, when you should use one or the other.
Let's get into it.
What better way than using a calendar to show you the difference between cron expression and a Timedelta
object?
So as you know right, a cron expression is a string that you use in the schedule parameter of your
Dag at a specific time.
For example, if you want to run it every day at midnight, you will use the following cron expression.
Imagine that the start date of your Dag is on March 29th.
Then your Dag will be triggered on the 29th, then the 13th, then the 30 month, and then the 1st of
April, and so on.
So every day at midnight.
So I think we agree that expressions are pretty straightforward to use.
However, a limitation of expressions is that they are not able to represent some frequency based schedules.
For example, let's say you want to define a cron expression that runs a Dag once every three days.
How can you define that in a cron expression?
I mean, you could write an expression that runs on every first, fourth, seventh and so on day of
the month.
But this approach will end up with an issue, because if you do that, that means your dog will run
on the 13th of March and also on April 1st.
And all of a sudden you don't have this three days interval anymore.
So how can you fix that?
Well, this is where you need to use a Timedelta object.
And in this case it will be timedelta with days equals to three.
And so just like that you will be able to schedule your Dag once every three days.
So keep in mind cron expressions.
Always check the current time to know if your Dag should run or not.
So you can set that cron expression is like I want to run my Dag at a specific time, whereas with a
timedelta object it helps you to run your dags in terms of relative time interval.
So for example here every three days.
And that's how you can translate Timedelta.
So timedelta every something cron expressions at a specific time.
And that's how you know whether you should use cron expression or Timedelta object.

--- Is that streaming? ---

You can run your Dag at a specific time using a cron expression.
You can run it at a specific interval of time using a Timedelta object.
But what if you want to run your Dag continuously so you want to trigger it as fast as possible?
Well, let me show you how to do that in airflow.
Unless you didn't know, airflow has some presets.
Presets are useful because instead of having to write cron expressions like that, you can just use
them.
And as you can see on the left, they are much more self-explanatory.
So that's why I always recommend you to use presets over the cron expressions if they are available.
So let's begin with the first one you have known, which is the actual schedule by default with airflow
three, which means your Dag runs only if you run it manually.
So if you click on trigger on the airflow UI, or if you trigger it through the airflow rest API or
the CLI and so on.
Okay, so not through the scheduler, then you have once, which is nice if you want to run your Dag
only once.
As you can see here, then you have hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and yearly.
I mean, I think they all make sense.
You can see the description right here.
But there is one preset which for some reason is not that popular, but super useful.
Sometimes it is the continuous one and continuous.
As you can see here, means that your Dag runs as soon as the previous run finishes.
And I want to be very clear here.
Continuous is not streaming okay.
Keep in mind that in airflow you cannot have real time data pipelines, meaning you cannot process data
in real time with a Dag in airflow.
Streaming solutions are complex in airflow, even if you use continuous, which means your Dag runs
as soon as the previous run finishes.
Still, the scheduler triggers your Dag as quickly as possible, but it's still not a Dag dog that runs
continuously forever.
Right.
Like one instance of your dog that runs as a streaming Dag that doesn't exist yet in airflow.
So just keep that in mind.
Don't confuse streaming solution and continuous, however continuous, is useful.
So let me show you how to use it in your Dag.
Back to your code editor.
Let's modify the schedule data pipeline.
So let's change the schedule parameter with add continuous.
So here add continuous like that.
And now you may say well that's done I have my Dag that runs continuously.
Well if you try to do that you will get an error on the airflow UI.
Because when you have the schedule set to continuous you also need to specify another parameter which
is max active runs.
And you have to set it to one, which means you cannot have more than one instance of your dag more
than one dag run running at a given time.
This is a constraint.
Again, if you don't set this parameter to one, you will get an error on the airflow UI.
Okay, now what do you think will happen as we have catch up to true?
Which means the Dag will run all the missing Dag runs between the start date and today.
What do you think we will get for the data interval start and the data interval end?
Remember that if you open the dot env file, we have this parameter that enables data intervals, which
is not the default behavior in airflow 3.0.
But for now we have the data intervals.
So again what do you think the data intervals will be.
Well let's see that.
So in the terminal run the command Astro dev kill in order to clean everything in your airflow instance.
And then airflow dev start.
Okay.
So let's wait a little bit until airflow is up and running again.
But with airflow UI, if you go on DAGs and then schedule turn on the toggle off your data pipeline
right here and refresh the page.
And as you can see we are getting one diagram.
Keep refreshing the page.
And now it's done.
Then we have another one, then another one and so on.
So basically each time a diagram completes there is a new diagram.
That's how it works with continuous.
Let's suppose the Dag and refresh the page.
And let's take a look at the tasks.
So let's say this one.
If we look at the logs you can see that the data interval start is the following date at the following
time.
And the data interval end is the following date at the following time okay.
So we have 58 seconds and 59 seconds for the data interval end.
And as you know the logical date is equal to the data interval start.
Now let's look at the previous diagram.
And you can see that basically the data interval end of the previous diagram with 58 seconds is the
actual data interval.
Start of the next Dag run right here.
58 seconds.
So the first thing to keep in mind is that even if you are using continuous data, intervals are still
respected.
The data interval end of one run becomes the data interval start of the next dagrun.
However, as we are using continuous, you don't have a static predefined data interval anymore, like
when you are using other cron expressions like daily.
In fact, if you look at this dag run, we took one second to complete it, then the previous one once
again again.
But this one took two seconds to complete, right?
The data interval start is 55 seconds and the data interval end is 57 seconds.
So again data intervals are respected.
However, the interval of time for your data intervals are not static.
It depends on how long it takes to complete a given Dag run, which is not the case when you use daily
or weekly and so on.
You always get the same interval of time, regardless of how long it takes to complete a diagram.
Now, as a quick exercise, go back to the default behavior of airflow 3.0.
So you should set this parameter to false.
And then in the task my task, use the Python sleep method so that your task will be longer or shorter
to complete, and then run the following command to start from scratch again and trigger your data pipeline
exactly like we did by turning on the toggle and observe the data interval start and data interval end
of the different diagrams that you obtain.
Take a pause here.
Try to do the exercise and I'll see you in a second.
All right so let's see how to complete this exercise.
First you open the env and then you set this parameter to false.
Then you go back to the Dag.
And here you import time And run them.
And actually, as we're going to use those two imports only in the task, we can just put them in the
task directly.
Then just below you can create a new variable sleep time with random and the following values one and
ten, meaning you will get a sleep time between 1 or 10.
And finally, you just need to call time dot sleep and you pass the sleep time.
Which means that task.
My task will take between one to 10s to complete each time the Dag runs.
Now you save the file and then in the terminal you run the command.
Astro Dev, Keel and Astro Dev start to start from scratch once airflow is up and running again.
If you click on your Dag in the DAGs view, you can see here that you don't have any runs yet.
So let's turn on the toggle right here and refresh the page.
And now we have one run.
Let's keep refreshing another one.
Okay, so you can see that the task is taking longer than the previous one.
And now we have another diagram.
Let's wait for this one to complete.
And now we can pause the Dag.
All right.
If we take a look at the task logs let's say of the latest diagram.
Interestingly you can see that the data interval start is not equal to the data interval end.
Whereas we changed that setting to go back to the default behavior of airflow three which is not to
have data intervals.
But still as we are using the continuous schedule we are getting data intervals.
So remember with continuous you will always get data intervals.
And so the data interval start and data interval end can be different.
Now you may wonder when should you use Continuous.
Well, honestly, most of the time you will use continuous if you have to run something as quickly as
possible.
For example, you have, I don't know, like some events that you are receiving and you want to process
those events as quickly as possible.
Also, if you have like sensors or variable operators, we will come back at that later in the course
that are waiting for highly irregular events in external data tools.
Then continuous might be a solution, but for now let's do some modifications to the schedule.
Dag.
So we're actually going to rename it Sander like that and change the name of the file as well.
And then we can remove the catchup parameter because by default it is set to false.
And also don't forget to rename the Dag at the bottom of the file.
So here sander instead of schedule and then save the file.
We can keep the rest as it is.
Now I see you in the next video.

--- Scheduling DAGs on Asset updates ---

So far, you only have explored time based scheduled data pipelines.
But airflow can do way more than that, and what you will discover in this video will be truly useful
for you.
So let's get into it.
Let's imagine that you have the following two data pipelines.
You have Dag one that has three tasks A, B and C, and then Dag two that has three tasks D, E, and
f.
Now you would like to trigger Dag two.
As soon as the task c in Dag one successfully completes.
So how can you create that dependency between Hdac1 and hdac2?
Well, if you have been using airflow for a while, you may think of some solutions here.
Maybe the first one is to use the external task sensor for the task D in Dag two, so that you wait
for the task C in Hdac1 to complete in order to execute the rest of the tasks in Dag two.
That's one solution.
Another solution could be to use the trigger diagram operator for task, let's say D, so we could add
another task here.
Task D that is a trigger diagram operator.
And as soon as task C succeeds, then task D runs.
And as it is the trigger diagram operator that triggers Dag two.
This is also a solution.
However, both solutions have some drawbacks for the first one with the external task sensor.
Well, it is a sensor, so it will waste resources while waiting for the event to occur.
In that case, task C to successfully complete and also you will need to set some parameters that can
be tricky depending on the schedule of the upstream Dag that you are waiting for, and then for the
trigger Dag operator.
Well, while it is straightforward to use, you still need to add a task and that might not be something
that you want.
So is there a better way to create a dependency between two DAGs or multiple DAGs?
Is there a better way to trigger Dag two as soon as task C successfully completes?
Yes, there is one the assets.
So an airflow asset is a logical grouping of data.
For example, it can be a file, it can be records in a table, and so on.
An asset is a group of data.
And then you have upstream producer tasks that update assets and asset updates contribute to scheduling
downstream consumer DAGs.
So concretely it means that you have this pipeline A, B, C that produces or updates an asset.
So again that asset could be a file in an S3 bucket.
And as soon as this asset is updated or produced that triggers the downstream Dag because this data
pipeline is scheduled on this asset.
And just like that, you are able to create cross Dag dependencies at ease without using sensors or
the trigger operator to create an asset.
It is pretty simple.
You just need to import the asset class from airflow SDK.
And that's it.
Then you instantiate your asset object and you can pass multiple parameters.
There are two parameters, or at least one of them that it is required.
So either you set URI or you set name, but you have to set one of those parameters, otherwise you
will receive an error.
The URI is usually the path to the underlying data that this asset represents.
So here a CSV file in an S3 bucket.
The name usually is the name of your asset.
Again, you could also use a path for that, but as a best practice, I recommend you to specify a URI
as the path to the underlying data that this asset represents, and give a name that could be self-explanatory
for this asset.
Okay, next, you have two additional parameters that you can define if you want extra.
So if you want to attach some extra information this parameter expects a dictionary.
As you can see here we pass description and then we give the description of that asset.
But you can pass whatever you want.
Here it is a dictionary and also a group.
So if you have multiple assets, you can make them part of the same group.
Visually, you won't see that yet.
Maybe in future releases, but if you have multiple assets that belong to the same team, for example,
you can put team A so you know that this asset belongs to team A.
Okay.
But that's how you create an asset.
Now let's see the assets in action and what you can do with them.
Back to your code editor.
Open the center tag.
And then let's make some modifications.
So we want to change continuous to daily.
To trigger that tag every day at midnight.
And then we can remove everything we have in that task to make it much simpler, as we want to do nothing
for now.
The next step is to create an asset so you know how to create an asset.
Try to do it by yourself and make sure that this asset has the name.
File A and the URI should be slash tmp slash file a dot txt.
So again take a pause and create that asset.
All right.
So the first step is to import the asset class from airflow SDK.
Then we create the asset equals to asset with the following URI.
As it is a file we can put file tmp file a txt.
Then the name can be file a.
We can add some extra information as well.
Let's say description file A contains the data to be sent.
And just like that you have successfully created your asset.
Now the next step is to modify my task so that airflow knows that my task updates this asset.
How to do it?
Pretty simple.
You just need to specify one parameter, which is the outlets parameter.
And that parameter takes a list of assets.
And in that case one asset.
Because we only have one asset here which is file A with that.
As soon as my task successfully completes for airflow, that means the asset file A has been successfully
updated as well.
And this is a very important point.
Keep in mind, even if the task does nothing to the asset, as you can see right here, I'm just doing
pass.
So this task is doing nothing.
Still, if the task successfully completes, which will be the case here for airflow, that means the
asset has been successfully updated.
Even if we haven't touched the underlying data which is file txt.
Okay, so for now airflow doesn't care about what you actually do with your assets with the underlying
data that those assets represent.
That being said, now we have the asset and the task that updates this asset.
The next step is to create the downstream Dag that runs as soon as this asset is updated.
So let's do it.
Create a new Python file in the DAGs folder and let's call it consumer.py.
And here from airflow SDK we import asset dag and task as well as dead time.
And we can just create a Dag, as shown right here called consumer that we're going to explicitly call
here as well.
And then let's create a task consume file A that for now does nothing.
Because what I want to show you here is how to trigger this data pipeline as soon as this asset is updated.
Well, to do it, it is pretty simple.
You just need to reuse the exact same asset.
So you just copy this asset, you paste it here and then you put file A as a value of schedule.
And that schedule parameter takes a list because you can have multiple assets.
For now we only have one file a.
And that's it.
Just like that you have a Dag that runs as soon as the asset file is updated and you have successfully
created a cross Dag dependency without using sensors or the trigger diagram.
With that, if you restart your airflow instance with restart or docker compose done and then docker
compose up d and go on the airflow UI, you should be able to see on the Dag.
View your two data pipelines consumer and sender.
Let's turn on the toggle of the consumer Dag.
And as you can see, nothing happens yet.
But if we turn on the toggle of the sender and then refresh the page, you can see that this has successfully
created a Dag run for the consumer Dag.
So let's trigger the sender again just to show you that.
So we have one diagram and boom we have a second one as well for the consumer Dag.
So as you can see we do have a dependency between the sender Dag and the downstream Dag consumer.
And that's the beauty of the assets.
You have created a dependency between sender and consumer.
And in fact, if you go to the assets view, you can see the name of your asset file A the last time
it was updated, the group it belongs to, which is asset by default, and then the producing task.
So which task produces this asset.
In that case only one task sender that my task.
So my task from the sender.
And you see that this Dag consumer is scheduled on that asset.
Most importantly if you click on your asset, you can clearly see that dependency between the Dag sender
that produces the asset file A, which the consumer Dag is triggered on.
And last but not least, if you go back to your Dag, you can clearly see here that consumer is scheduled
on the asset file a so that's the beauty of the assets.
That's just the basics.
But already you can see how useful they are.
Now you can schedule your data pipelines based on asset updates.
And you can truly create complex cross-deck dependencies using them.

--- Conditional Asset scheduling ---

With the assets.
You have quite a lot of flexibility in terms of how you can schedule the downstream Dag.
Indeed, triggering a Dag based on one asset is pretty simple, but you can do much more than that.
Let me show you.
One cool feature with the assets is that you can use logical operators to combine any number of assets
provided to the schedule parameter, and you have the logical operators R which is a pipe, or you have
the end, which is well, the end.
So let me show you what you can do.
Imagine that in addition to file a you have another asset which is file B.
So here we're going to put file B and then file B here as well as for the name and then for the description.
So now you have that here my task can update more than one asset right.
Remember that here outlets takes a list of assets.
So we can definitely say that my task updates both assets file A and file B, or we could even create
another task that updates file B.
So we have two tasks one that updates file A and another one that updates file B.
But for now, let's keep things simple.
So now we have a task that updates both assets file A and file B.
What we want is to trigger the downstream Dag consumer on those two assets.
How?
First we need to copy this asset and then put it in the downstream Dag consumer.
And now we have that.
The only thing we need to do here is to put file B like that.
And so this Dag runs only if both assets are updated.
And keep in mind if one asset like file A is updated multiple times before file B is updated, then
it doesn't matter for airflow.
It waits for both assets to be updated at least once to trigger the downstream Dag.
Once okay, if file A is updated twice and then file B only once, then your Dag won't be triggered
twice, but only once.
Okay, so this is the easiest way to schedule a downstream Dag on multiple assets.
Okay, this is cool.
But what if you want to trigger this downstream Dag consumer if file A or file B is updated?
Not both.
In that case, you need to use the Or operator which is the pipe.
And also you need to change the square brackets by the parenthesis.
So make sure that you put the parentheses like that.
And that means this Dag runs if file A is updated or file B, but not both.
Now you are not waiting for both assets, only one or the other.
As a quick exercise, go back to the sender Dag and then create a second task that updates file B.
And for my task you want to keep it for file A.
However, in my task you need to raise an exception.
And for the second task you just want to print a message on the standard output, but just ensure that
the second task updates file B.
Okay, so pause the video and I'll see you for the solution.
All right.
So here's the solution.
It is pretty simple.
We have a second task that we called my task two.
But it doesn't matter the name that you chose.
And most importantly we have this task that updates the following asset file B.
And again the first task raise an exception.
So this task will fail.
And so file A won't be updated.
Now let's go on the airflow UI and see what happens if we trigger the Dag before triggering the sender.
Dag, let me show you something cool.
If you click on the schedule value of the consumer Dag, the downstream Dag that runs when the assets
are updated.
You can see here a nice visualization explaining the condition for which your Dag runs.
Here.
File A has to be updated or file B okay.
So the more complex the schedule value is the more useful this visualization will be.
Okay, so now let's trigger the sender Dag to see what happens for the downstream Dag consumer okay.
And we should see a diagram.
Perfect.
We have a diagram.
Why.
Because again the consumer Dag is waiting for one of the assets to be updated.
In fact if you click on the last Dag run of the consumer Dag and look at the asset events, you can
see that this Dag run was triggered by the asset file B and only the asset file B.
Now let me show you the real power of the logical operators because the good thing is you can mix them.
Let me show you that.
So imagine that instead of having two assets you have four assets.
So file C and file D.
And then you create two other tasks.
So you can just copy my task two and then put it here and another one here.
And now you rename that my task three.
And then here four.
And also you call your tasks right here.
And for the outlets parameters here you put file C and file D.
Then we're going to raise an exception for my task three like that.
And that's it.
So at this point you have four tasks.
My task two, three and four.
And each task updates a specific asset file A, B, C and d.
Now let's take a look at the downstream Dag consumer.
Again you need to copy the same assets.
So let's do that.
And then we paste the assets right here.
Then you want to schedule this data pipeline on an update to either file A or file B and either file
C or file D.
How can you do that.
In that case if you want to do it by yourself, try it.
You will need to use the end the pipe and also some parentheses to create groups.
So try to do it and I see you for the solution.
All right.
So here is the solution.
So basically you will need to create two groups of assets to create a group of assets.
In the schedule parameter you have to use the parentheses.
So the first group will be file A or file b.
So that's exactly what you have right here.
You have one group that indicates either file A or file B as you use the or right here.
And then you create another group file C or file D.
Okay.
And now you have two groups file A and file b file c and file d.
But we said we want to trigger that data pipeline on an update to either file A or file B and either
file C or file D.
So you just need to put the end operator here.
And now you have successfully scheduled your data pipeline on this condition.
Okay.
So that's the power of the logical operators.
You can create some complex schedule values by mixing those operators.
And in fact, if you take a look at the airflow UI, if you click on the schedule value, you can see
exactly the condition for which this data pipeline will be triggered.
That's it about conditional asset scheduling.
Now you know how to create complex conditions with your assets.

--- Assets don't have to be static... ---

Assets are great for creating cross dependencies, but so far you have defined your assets statically.
As you can see here you have one asset file A.txt.
But what if instead you want to create that asset dynamically?
For example, you have a task that creates this file and then that produces an asset corresponding to
your file that triggers a downstream Dag.
How can you do all of that dynamically?
That's what you are going to discover in this video.
First, let's do some cleaning so we can remove all the assets except the first one in the consumer
Dag.
And here change schedule to schedule the Dag only on the file a asset and then go to sender dot Pi.
From here we can remove these assets as well and just keep the first one file a.
And again we can remove the tasks here and keep only the first one.
We can remove Outlets.
And then here we just want to print something on the standard output.
And that should be enough.
Now we've done some cleaning.
The next step for us is to change this task so that it creates a file.
The file.
TXT.
So let's do it.
We can rename the task to create file that we call here.
And then we open a file.
Slash tmp file.
TXT and we write something in it.
This is a test print.
So now the task create file.
Creates a file file.
TXT which is an asset.
And so we want to dynamically generate that asset instead of statically define it as shown right here.
So we can actually remove this.
So how do you do that.
Well in order to dynamically create an asset from a task you have to use an asset.
Alias.
Alias is like a placeholder for a future asset that will be created.
Basically, an asset alias must be statically defined with a name.
So for example, my alias.
And then this asset alias can be attached to one or multiple assets.
So for example we have this create file task that dynamically creates an asset.
Then this asset will be attached to this asset alias.
And the asset obviously has you know the common attributes name uri and extra.
So to sum up this part is statically defined and this part is dynamically defined.
And so as soon as you dynamically create the asset you attach that asset to the corresponding asset
alias.
And just like that you are able to generate assets dynamically.
So let me show you how to do that.
First you need to import the asset alias.
class as well as meta data from SDK.
Next, the asset alias needs a name, and since this name is static, it's better to define it as a
variable.
So let's put alias name equals to alias file a.
Then we need to indicate to airflow that create file produces an asset.
But because the asset is dynamically created we're going to use the asset alias instead.
So here outlets equals to asset alias.
And we pass the alias name okay.
So again the asset alias here acts as a placeholder for a future asset that we're going to generate
at runtime.
Right here.
You need to use yield metadata.
And that metadata object takes a few parameters.
And the first one is the asset.
So here you put asset equals to your asset.
And again you have to define a name a URI and any extra information that you want to pass to your asset.
So let's put a name for it which is file A.
And then the URI is tmp file A.txt.
Actually as we have the same path twice let's create a variable for that.
So path.
Okay.
And then we can just use it here and here as well.
And then we want to add some extra information as well such as a description like that.
Okay.
So now you have your asset.
The next parameter is the alias to which you must attach your asset.
So here we put asset alias.
And again we pass the name.
And just like that you are able to dynamically create an asset Set at runtime using the asset alias.
So now let's go to the consumer Dag.
And here we can remove this.
And again import asset alias from airflow SDK.
And then for the schedule we need to change that in order to use the asset alias instead of the asset.
So here we put asset alias and the name which is alias file A.
But again we can create a variable.
So let's copy this paste it here and use the variable here.
And now let's verify that what we've done works in your terminal.
You can restart your airflow instance using Astro Dev Restart if you are using the Astro CLI.
Or you can use Docker compose down and then docker compose up on the airflow UI.
If you go to assets and then click on the asset file A you can see here the dependency.
So you have the standard Dag that triggers the consumer Dag using the asset alias alias file.
A and you can see that by the icon.
And this asset alias represents the asset file a a quick pause here.
If for some reason you are not able to see any assets or the asset, file A on the assets view, then
you must go to the Dag view, trigger the standard Dag and then click on the latest Dag run of the consumer
Dag and go to Asset Events.
And here you should be able to see the asset file A, you click on it and you will see the same view
as me.
Okay.
So now if you go to DAGs and then trigger sander.
Hopefully we should get a new Dag run for the consumer.
And you can see that we got a new one as expected.
Keep in mind that the power of using an asset alias is that all the attributes of your asset can be
defined at runtime.
For example, the URI could come from a different task that you pass as a parameter of createfile or
even the extra information, and so on, by the way.
As a quick exercise for you, try to create a task here that returns the following path that you use
in the create file task, just to show you that indeed, you can use an attribute that comes from another
task in your asset.
Pause the video and try to do the exercise.
Here is the solution so you can see that we have this task Getpath that returns the following path.
And then we call get path as a parameter of Createfile.
As you can see right here.
And just like that, we obtain the path that Getpath returns and we use it in the asset.
Okay.
So that's it about the asset alias.
Don't hesitate to play with it.
It's a very powerful concept that in my opinion, is not popular enough among the airflow community.

--- Access Asset metadata ---

So far we haven't done anything meaningful in the consumer.
Dag.
This Dag runs as soon as this asset is updated.
But how can we access the information of this asset in the consumer file a task.
Right.
Because if you look at the standard Dag, we have, for example the URI as well as the extra information,
the description.
So how do we access those attributes in the downstream Dag in this task.
That's exactly what you are going to discover right now.
Okay.
So remember that in the standard Dag we have one task create file that creates a file corresponding
to this path, and then write some text in it to finally create the corresponding asset dynamically.
And that's why we use yield metadata to generate that asset dynamically that we attach to an asset alias.
Again, you can think of an asset alias as a placeholder, just to tell to airflow that at runtime this
asset alias will become an asset.
So now we have this asset.
How can you fetch the information of that asset in your downstream?
Dag in the Dag that is triggered by this asset.
Well, you have to use another parameter in the task decorator, which is inits and inlets expects a
list of assets, in that case an asset alias.
And then you put the alias name.
Okay.
Just a quick note on the outlets and inlets parameter.
So truly when you use the outlets parameter to a task, that means your task produces something.
For example, a file, a record in your database, whatever you want.
But the idea here is that whenever a task has the outlets parameter set, that means this task produces
something and then you have the corresponding asset.
And so when you do that it produces an asset.
And you can have another task with this time the inlets parameter that consumes that asset.
The asset that the first task producer task produced.
Okay.
So you have the outlets and then those outlets go into the inlets to be consumed.
And actually that's the start of having data lineage in airflow.
But that's another topic.
Next as a parameter of the task consume file A, you have to use inlet events that you can set to none,
because this is automatically provided by airflow as soon as the task runs.
Once you have the events, you can just create another variable events and then inlet events, and you
pass the asset alias with the alias name because you want to fetch the events corresponding to your
asset.
Once you have that, the final step is just to print on the standard output the latest event that you
catch that triggers your data pipeline.
So if you save the file and then go on the airflow UI.
You should be able to see the two DAGs consumer and sender on the DAGs view.
And if you trigger the sender Dag and wait for the Dag run of the consumer Dag.
Okay, then click on it and click on the task.
If you look at the logs right here, you have the asset event.
You see here you have asset response.
And then you can find the name of your asset file a as well as the URI of your asset.
And by the way, you can also access some additional information that might be interesting for you.
For example which Dag run created that asset.
If you carefully take a look right here, you have the source Dag id.
So which Dag created that asset.
So you see here sender you have the source task ID.
So which task created that asset, that asset event and so on.
All right.
Now as a quick exercise for you since you have access to the event, right?
That's what you can find right here.
Try to access the URI of your asset in the file a task.
So right here.
Try to access the URI from here and then open the file to read the content of that file that you print
on the standard output.
Just one thing.
Make sure that in the standard Dag you actually change the URI.
So instead of putting file slash slash just remove this and give the path right away.
Okay.
So again try this exercise.
Try to open the file and read the content by accessing the asset and the array from this event.
All right.
So I hope you tried.
Let me show you the solution.
So basically you have to remove print like that.
And then you put with open.
And then you want to read from the asset the URI.
And finally you just print on the standard output whatever you have in that file.
And just like that, you are able to open the file that is produced by the create file and read the
content.
So let me show you that on the airflow UI.
Back to the DAGs.
If you trigger the standard Dag again and wait a little bit, you can see a new Dag groin right here.
If you click on it and look at the logs, you can see the content of the file.
As expected, that's why assets are so powerful.
Because first they allow you to create dependencies at ease, but also because you can actually access
the underlying data that a given asset represents in your downstream Dag, in the Dag triggered by the
asset.
Now, there is one other thing that I would like to talk about.
If you carefully take a look at one of the previous Dag runs where you had the asset event.
If you look at the extra information, the extra fields.
We don't have any extra information.
Right?
You can see here it is empty.
So this is important to remember when you yield an asset, when you dynamically create an asset, you
have to set your extra information not in the asset but in the metadata object.
So you put the extra information right here instead.
Okay.
And if you do that and then print the extra information in the consumer tag.
So here we can put print events extra and then go on the UI trigger the Dag again.
And this time if you look at the logs of the event you can see here the extra information as expected.
Okay.
So just remember that it's actually very easy to make that mistake.
But congratulations.
Because at this point you know exactly how to read the content of an asset in a downstream Dag.

--- A different (better?) way to define Assets ---

So far we have created assets using the asset alias class or the asset class.
Right.
And all of that, we've done it inside a task.
However, in airflow three, there is another way to define assets, which is by using the asset decorator.
So let me show you that the idea of using assets instead of tasks is truly a different way to think
about your workflows.
So typically you have a workflow here with three tasks A, B, and C.
Imagine that A extracts some data.
So here you have some data and then B processes the data.
So now you have the transformed data okay.
And finally C creates a report for your data okay.
So for each task you have the corresponding output.
And guess what.
Those outputs are the assets of your workflow.
And when you define a workflow using assets only.
That's exactly what you will describe.
You will have three assets corresponding to this one, this one and this one.
You will have some dependencies between those assets.
But again, instead of describing a task you describe what you want the asset that you want.
Okay.
So it's just a different way of thinking about your workflows.
And I'm going to show you that right now.
But just keep in mind what you will see is not very mature.
Okay.
It is still pretty new in airflow.
So if you truly want to use assets in production, I still recommend you to use what you've seen previously.
What you are about to see is for the future, but again, not very mature.
So still wait if you want to use that in production.
All right.
So let's recreate what we've done in sender and consumer using the asset decorator.
So in the folder you can create a new Python file that we're going to call file b.py.
And then the first step is from the flow SDK to import metadata and asset.
The asset decorator.
Then you create the asset using the asset decorator.
So you put asset you define the URI of your asset.
So let's say tmp.
And then file dot txt.
And you have to define a schedule.
So remember that when you use the asset decorator even if you set the schedule to none you have to set
it anyway.
Otherwise you will get an error.
And the schedule here means that we want to materialize this asset.
So we want to create file txt every day at midnight okay.
Then you define the name of your asset which is file B.
And as we are using a decorator, the name of the asset is the name of the function that this decorator
decorates and then you pass self and also DS equals to none right.
Because remember if you look at the center tag we have DS equals to none.
Okay.
Next in the function that corresponds to your asset, you have to put the logic that materializes this
asset that creates file txt.
So we just have to go back to the center tag and then copy this.
Paste it here and just change path to self dot uri.
Because again dry is the path to file txt.
Once we have that, the next step is to yield metadata exactly as we did before to create the actual
asset.
So let's use yield metadata.
But as you are already in asset right.
Because we are using the asset decorator, You don't have to use the asset class anymore.
You can just put self because self is your asset.
And then you can add the extra information exactly like before with the description and the created
at.
And that's it.
So just like that, only with that piece of code you are doing the exact same thing as shown right here.
Okay.
So that's the power of using the asset decorator is that you can create an asset with much less code
than if you had to define a Dag than a task, and then use the asset alias and so on.
Okay.
So it's much, much shorter and simpler to write.
Okay.
So we have the first asset file.
Let's create the second one that reads the content of the file.
So we can create an additional asset that we're going to call let's say report.
And the schedule is on file B.
So as soon as this asset is materialized, as soon as we create file B, then this asset is triggered
exactly like we did for the consumer Dag.
And then we have to define the function again.
We can call it report or report file B.
And here we pass the context and the asset file b.
Then as we want to read the content of the asset we can just copy this paste it here.
We just have to change context and access the inlets events.
And we pass file B.
So the asset which is exactly like we did here with Asset alias, but instead we pass the asset directly
file B.
And finally you can just print the asset like that okay.
And that's it.
So just like that, with this piece of code, you have what you've done right here without having to
define a Dag and everything.
Let's verify if it works in your terminal.
Restart your instance with Astro Dev restart.
Or you can use docker compose and docker compose up D if you are using docker Compose.
If you go to the Dag view, you will see two additional DAGs file b and report that correspond to your
assets.
I will come back to that in a second, but for now just turn on the toggles of both DAGs so here and
here.
And then let's trigger.
The file B asset like that and wait for the Dag run here click on it.
Let's take a look at the logs.
And you can see here the asset event with the description as well as the name and the URI as expected.
So if you actually want to open the file and read the content, you can do what you did previously with
open.
And then you access the array of the asset and you read the content.
Now a few notes regarding the asset decorator.
First you have to statically define the URI.
Okay.
So you cannot pass or you cannot set the URI dynamically.
You have to define it.
Also you have to define a schedule because the asset decorator behind the scene creates a Dag with a
single task.
That's why on the airflow UI you have two DAGs file B corresponding to the first asset and report corresponding
to the second asset.
Last but not least, you might be tempted to share data between those two assets.
So for example, you can return a value here.
And then you would expect that by accessing file B you can access this value.
But it doesn't work that way.
It's a little bit more complex than that.
I don't want to confuse you.
Take a look at the documentation if you are interested to know how to proceed.
But again, I, I mean, you can use the asset decorators, but just think of them as again, they are
not fully, fully matured.
There are many updates that are coming in the future.
Airflow releases, so try them.
If you feel that they are doing the job that you are looking for, definitely use the asset decorators
instead of the asset objects.
But keep in mind, in my opinion today you have more flexibility by using the asset and the asset alias
classes than if you go with the asset decorator.
And also it is less confusing because when you use the asset or the asset alias classes, you are not
going to create a Dag, which again, it's a bit weird that for every asset that you create using the
asset decorator, you get a Dag, but I hope it will change in the future.
All right, so that's it about this video.
I hope you enjoyed it and I see you for the next one.

--- Schedule your DAGs on EXTERNAL events ---

In this video, you will learn about a new and very powerful and useful feature in airflow three, which
is the event driven scheduling pipelines.
So event driven scheduling is a subtype of data scheduling, where Dag is triggered when messages are
posted to a message queue.
So imagine that you have this pipeline and then you have like a website somewhere.
And as soon as a user clicks on a button that creates an event in a Kafka queue, for example.
And basically you want that event in the Kafka queue to trigger your data pipeline.
So again, with event driven scheduling, you can trigger this pipeline based on external events, on
events that occur outside of airflow.
And that's why this feature is so powerful.
Before diving into the code, let me tell you more about the different components that allow you this
event driven scheduling pipeline.
So again we have a pipeline with three tasks A, B, C and we want to trigger it based on external events,
events that occur outside of airflow.
So the first step is obviously to have a Q and a topic.
Remember that a message queue is a service that allows you to send and receive messages between different
systems in airflow.
Event driven scheduling is compatible with three different message queues.
You have Kafka, SQS and Reddis.
Then usually in your queue you have a topic because your queue can have many messages coming from different
sources, and you may want to trigger your pipeline only for specific messages that go into that topic.
So that's the idea of the topics, is to categorize your messages so that you can have another system
that listens to a specific topic.
So those specific messages.
So now you have the Q and the topic.
The next component is the trigger.
So the trigger is an asynchronous Python function running in the airflow trigger component.
Remember that airflow has a trigger component that you can actually see.
If you open Docker Desktop.
You can see right here the trigger.
So the goal of the trigger is to manage asynchronous Python functions that are the triggers.
Now in the context of event driven scheduling, the goal of the trigger is to continuously poll the
message queue for new messages.
And when a new message is found, a trigger event is created and the message is deleted from the queue.
Okay, next you have the asset.
As you know, an asset is an object in airflow that represents a concrete or abstract data entity.
So it can be a file, it can be a table in a database and so on.
But in the context of event driven scheduling, that asset will be your queue.
And then each time you receive a new message in your queue that creates an asset event.
Okay.
So as soon as you have an asset event that triggers the attached pipeline, and there is one last component
which is the asset watcher.
So the goal of the asset watcher is to watch one or more triggers for events.
And when a trigger fires a trigger event, as I told you before, the asset watcher updates the asset,
which then creates an asset event that triggers the pipeline.
All right.
Okay.
So let me give you a summary of exactly how everything works together.
Now you have a full picture of the components.
First you have an event that goes into the queue.
And that can be your user clicking on a button for example.
And that event will be part of your topic.
then you have a trigger that continuously checks for new events for new messages in your topic.
And remember that this is done asynchronously.
Then once you have the trigger that checks for new events, the next step is to have the asset watcher
that watches this trigger.
And again, in that case the asset watcher is waiting for a trigger event.
So as soon as there is a message or an event in the queue, the trigger produces a trigger event that
triggers the asset watcher.
And then the asset watcher updates the asset.
And that creates an asset update that triggers the pipeline.
Okay.
So that's how it works.
That's how event driven scheduling works in airflow.
So now you know the basics.
Let's take a look at how to implement that in the code using AWS SQS.

--- Event driven scheduling with SQS ---

All right.
It is time to create your first event driven scheduled data pipeline.
And for that, you need an AWS account as we are going to use SQS.
So as soon as you create an AWS account and you can get that for free.
You go to your AWS console manager and you search for SQS.
As you can see here, simple queue service.
So you click on that service.
And from here you can create a queue.
So as you can see I've already some queues.
But let's create a new one.
And we can keep everything by default except the name where we can put event airflow queue.
And then you go at the bottom of the page and you click Create queue.
Okay.
So just like that you have a new queue that you can use to receive messages and that you will use to
trigger your pipelines.
Next, as we need to interact with this queue from our data pipeline, we have to create the credentials
for that.
So let's go on the AWS console again.
We can open a new tab.
And here you search for one service which is IAM.
And then you click on it.
And from here you have to create a new user.
So let's create a new user by clicking on users and then create user.
I'm going to call that user event airflow user and then click on next.
Then for the permissions you can attach policies directly and search for SQS.
And then make sure that you pick Amazon SQS full access.
Then you click next and then you click Create User.
So that's going to create a user.
Click on View User.
And from here you have to go to security credentials.
Then if you scroll down a little bit You have to create an access key.
So you click Create Access key and then you select third party service.
You understand.
So confirm that click next.
Create access key.
And then make sure that you download the access key here and the secret access key because you will
need those credentials to connect to your AWS account.
And so your Q again, if you forget to do that you won't be able to see those credentials again.
So you will have to recreate a user.
Now we are done with the prerequisites.
The next step is to add the airflow command, messaging provider and Airflow Amazon provider to our
airflow instance.
The airflow providers command messaging is important because that allows you to trigger pipelines based
on external events.
I highly recommend you to look at the documentation of this provider, especially if you go on triggers.
Here you have some code snippets that you will find pretty interesting.
And then if you go to supported providers and click on message queues.
You can see all the queues that you can use to trigger your pipelines.
So let's go back to our code editor and then make sure that you open the file requirements.txt.
Here you have to put the following two packages.
So the first provider Amazon, to interact with AWS, and the second one to access the triggers so that
we can trigger your pipelines on external events.
Once you have that the next step is to create your AWS connection.
First, you have to go to your terminal and restart your airflow instance to install the providers.
So for that you can type Astro Dev restart if you are using Astro CLI or Docker compose down and then
docker compose up D if you are using docker compose.
So let's wait a little bit.
Once your airflow instance is up and running again, go on the airflow UI and then you go to admin connections
and create a new connection that we're going to call AWS Default.
And then the connection type is Amazon Web Services.
And here for the login you have to put your access key.
And the password is the secret access key.
Remember those two keys.
So you have to put the access key right here.
And then the secret access key right here.
Next open the extra field JSON.
And you have to add the region name as a key.
So region name and the value will be what you can find right here at the top right corner of your AWS
account.
So if you click on it you can see us East one for me, but it can be different for you.
So I'm going to put us East one as a value of region name like that.
And that's it.
So now you click on save and you should have a new connection as shown right here.
So now you have set up the connection.
The next step is to create the pipeline that runs as soon as there is a new event in that SQS queue.
Back to your code editor.
If you want to have the auto completion for those two providers, you have to install them in your Python
virtual environment.
So first in your terminal type source and then they've been activate.
And once you are in your Python virtual environment you can type pip install.
And then this package actually put UV first and then wait a little bit.
Then you can type UV pip install.
And the second provider which is this one, and wait again until this package is installed.
Next go into the docs folder and create a new Python file event driven.py.
And from here make sure that your virtual Python environment is selected.
Okay, that's what you can see here I have Venv, so make sure that you have that at the bottom right
corner when you are on your Python file.
Next we have some imports to make.
So the first one is from airflow dot providers common messaging and then triggers message queue.
And we want to import message queue trigger.
Then from airflow dot SDK you want to import the asset and then the asset watcher as well as Dag and
task.
After the imports we can define the SQS queue URL.
So let's put that SQS queue equals to this URL that you can find on the details about the queue you
created earlier.
And you paste the link here.
Then you must define the trigger that listens to your external queue, your SQS queue for new messages.
So let's create that trigger.
You create a new variable trigger equals to the message queue trigger.
Then you pass the AWS connection id, AWS default, and then you pass the queue from which you listen
the messages and finally wait your delay.
That defines how often you want to pull new messages from the queue here every 10s so every 10s the
trigger checks if there are new messages in your queue.
With this trigger, the next step is to define an asset that watches for messages on the queue.
So for example you're going to create a new variable.
New message equals to asset.
And here you define a name for your asset.
So let's say new message.
And then you have to define an asset watcher.
For that you have the watchers parameter that takes a list.
And then asset watcher.
and you pass a name for your asset watcher.
So let's say new message watcher and then trigger equals to trigger.
Because remember the asset watcher watches for events that come from the trigger that listens to your
queue okay.
So as soon as there is a new message the trigger produces a trigger event.
The asset watcher knows that because it is linked to your trigger.
And that's going to update the asset, which in turns creates an asset update that triggers your pipeline.
And that's why now the final step is to create your data pipeline with a schedule equals to your asset.
So new message.
And then you define the name of your Dag which is event driven.
And you can create a task that we're going to call process Message that takes one parameter, which
is triggering a set.
Events equals to none because this is automatically given by airflow.
When the task runs, and once you have that, you can just loop over the events.
So for event in triggering a set events you pass the asset.
So new message and you can print the events by typing event dot extra payload and message batch with
the index zero.
And finally body okay.
And once you have that we can just call the task here and the Dag at the end of the file and that's
it.
Okay.
So at this point you should be able to trigger this pipeline as soon as there is a new message in your
SQS queue.
And finally, print the content of that message on the standard output.
So let's verify that everything works.
If you go back on the UI and click DAGs, you should be able to see your new Dag event driven.
If not, then maybe you made a mistake.
So double check the code of your Dag, or you can find the code under that video on Udemy and then turn
on the toggle of the event driven Dag.
So as you can see, nothing happens.
And this is expected because we have to receive a message in our message queue in order to trigger that
pipeline.
So let's do that.
Go back to your queue and then send the message so you can click here.
And here let's put a message I'm a message from SQS and then click on send message.
Okay.
So now the message has been sent.
One thing you can do is to open Docker Desktop.
And if you click on the trigger and look at the logs, you can see what's going on here.
And you can see that we have an error related to this package that it is not installed but our trigger
needs.
So we have to install that Python package.
So copy the name and then go back to your code editor.
And then in requirements.txt paste the package.
Then you have to restart your app for instance.
So type Astro Dev restart or Docker compose down and then docker compose up D.
So let's wait a little bit.
Now airflow is up and running again.
If you go back to your Docker desktop and take a look at the logs of the trigger, you can clearly see
that the trigger checks for new messages every 10s.
So you see, right now we have no messages in the SQS queue.
So let's create a new message.
Again I'm super message.
And then click Send message.
And let's take a look at the logs of the trigger.
And hopefully we should be able to see the message.
So let's wait a few seconds.
And here it is.
You can see right there you have the message that the trigger found in the SQS queue.
And if we take a look at the airflow UI right now I have some Dag runs.
Maybe you don't have any, but if you refresh the page you can see here a new Dag run.
So if we click on it and then look at the logs of process message, you can see I'm a super message
as expected.
So that's how you can trigger DAGs on events, on events that occur outside of your airflow instance.
And that's why this feature is so powerful.
As you can imagine, there are many things that you can do with it, and the SQS queue is just an example.
But again, you can use Kafka or Reddis.
Enjoy that feature and I'll see you for the next video.

--- Why static tasks is not enough ---

In this video you will discover dynamic task mapping.
Why this feature is so useful.
Let's get started.
All right, let me give you an example of why dynamic task mapping is so useful for you.
So imagine that you have a bucket like a S3 bucket.
And then every day you receive files in that bucket.
So let's say you are on Monday.
And on Monday you have let's say two files okay.
So file A and then file b.
Next let's say you want to process those files.
So you will create a data pipeline with maybe one task that verifies if the files are in the bucket.
So let's say check files.
And then once the files are in the bucket the next task could be to process the files.
Okay.
So that's how it would work a very simple pipeline.
However there are already some issues here.
So if you take a look at the process Files task, this task will process all the files at the same time.
So A and B the task runs and then processes file A and it works.
But then it processes file B and for some reason it doesn't work well.
Because of that the task fails.
And so you have to rerun the task again.
But by rerunning the task again you are going to reprocess file A.
And so you are wasting time and resources.
Here you have two files.
But imagine that you have many files.
You don't want to reprocess the already processed files just because one had an issue.
One way to solve that is by creating one task process file per file.
Typically it can look like this.
You still have your bucket.
And then the task that verifies if the files are here.
And then you have two tasks.
Process a for the file a and process b for the file b.
So now let's say process a and b run.
And so process A is processing the file A and process B is processing the file b.
Then A is okay it succeeds.
And so the task as well.
But now B has an error.
In that case only the task process B fails.
And because only the task process B fails, then you just need to restart this task to reprocess file
B and not file A, which is way more efficient as you don't reprocess the files that didn't have any
issues.
But now while this solution is better, it is not perfect because imagine that instead of having two
files, you have more files than that.
Well, actually, imagine that you don't know how many files you will have every day in that bucket.
Ideally, you want a solution that allows you to generate the number of tasks according to how many
files you have in that bucket at runtime.
So when the workflow runs, for example, if you have three files on Monday, then you would end up
with three tasks Generated.
So here process C but then if on Tuesday you have one file let's say A.
Then you want to generate only one task which is process A.
Well to do that you need to use a dynamic task mapping.
With dynamic task mapping, you are able to generate tasks based on an input that is generated at runtime
when the workflow runs.
And this is why this feature is so powerful.
Let me show you some practical examples where dynamic task mapping is useful.
So the first one is processing multiple files in an S3 bucket.
This is pretty much what you saw.
So here you're going to have a task to list all files in the bucket.
And then you will dynamically map a processing task to each file.
And each mapped task processes one file independently.
And then you might have one final task to aggregate results after all files are processed, and this
way allows you to eliminate the need to hardcode file names or rewrite your Dag when the number of files
changes.
So very powerful.
Another practical example is this one.
So imagine that you need to migrate some tables across environments.
You might have one task to scan tables that need migration, and then maps a migration task for each
table dynamically.
And each mapped task handles one tables migration.
And finally you have one task that validates the migration.
And this approach automatically adapts to the actual tables needing migration on any given day.
Then last but not least, you have the user notification system.
So imagine here that you need to send notifications to different types of communications.
You might have one task that queries the database for pending notifications, and then you dynamically
maps notification tasks based on the results.
And each mapped task handles one notification type, email, push notification, and so on.
And by doing that, your workflow automatically scales with your notification volume without requiring
code changes.
Okay, so my point is dynamic task mapping.
Super useful for many different use cases.
And now it is time to see how to use dynamic task mapping in your workflows.

--- The basics of dynamic task mapping ---

In this video, you will discover what is dynamic task mapping and the most important concepts to know
about it.
Let's get started.
All right, so what exactly is dynamic task mapping?
Well, dynamic task mapping allows a workflow to create several tasks at runtime based on current data
rather than the Dag author.
So you having to know in advance how many tasks would be needed.
And that's the power of dynamic task mapping.
You can create tasks at runtime based on data coming from another task, rather than you having to define
the tasks in advance.
Concretely, this is similar to defining your tasks in a for loop, but instead of having the Dag file
fetch the data and do that itself.
The scheduler can do this based on the output of a previous task.
The scheduler will create n copies of the task before a mapped task is executed, one for each input.
To illustrate that, imagine you have a task extract values that returns a list of integers.
So, for example one Two, three and four.
Then you want to process each value of that list.
For that you have another task, which is process value.
And with dynamic task mapping, the scheduler will create n copies of that task, one for each input
of the list that extract values returns.
Now let's say you run the task extract values again, but this time the task returns three values instead
of four.
That means the task process value four will be automatically removed because the input doesn't exist
anymore.
Last but not least, it is also possible to have a task operate on the collected output of a mapped
task, commonly known as map and reduce.
So this is a little bit more advanced, but what it means is that after the mapped tasks, you can have
another task that it is the reduced task.
And that task processes the outputs returned by the mapped tasks.
So for example here that could be one plus two plus three.
And so the output of some values will be six.
And this is what we call map and reduce.
And you can do that in airflow.
All right.
Now you know exactly what is dynamic task mapping.
Let's see how to use that concept in your workflows.
So open your code editor and make sure that you are in the folder advanced authoring which is the folder
of the course.
And make sure that you have activated the virtual environment.
So for that you have the command source bin activate.
Then in the docs folder create a new file.
Let's call it mapping.
And here let's create a new data pipeline.
So we import the Dag and Task decorators.
So from airflow dot SDK import Dag and task.
And then we define a simple data pipeline with Dag decorator mapping Dag.
And here we create the first task which is going to be print value that takes a parameter value, and
this is an integer that returns known as.
We just want to print the value on the standard output.
Then let's not forget to call that task here.
So let's pass one as the parameter value.
And finally we call the Dag at the end.
So here we have a simple Dag with one task print value that prints on the standard output a value as
given in the parameter.
But now what if you want to print more than just the value one?
What if you want to print, let's say a list of values one, two and three?
Well, one way to do that is to call the task two more times right?
So one for print value two and one for printing the value three.
But this is not great.
I think we agree on that.
So another way could be to create a for loop.
Okay.
So for example here we have for value in 123.
And then you call the task again three times.
But here in a loop.
This is better.
But there is still a problem here.
Indeed, that list is static, right?
Imagine that you don't know how many values you need to print.
Well, in that case, you cannot use a for loop anymore, right?
And this is where you will need to use dynamic task mapping.
And actually, even if you use a for loop like that with a static list of values, I recommend you to
use dynamic task mapping because it is way more optimized than using a for loop for generating tasks.
But now let me show you how to actually call print value three times, but with dynamic task mapping.
So you can remove that.
And here you just need to call print value.
And then you call the method dot expand.
This function passes the parameters that you want to map.
So here you want to map the parameter value that comes from the task print value as defined right here.
Then we give the list of values one, two and three.
And the scheduler will generate three tasks.
print value for the value one, then two and three.
In addition, to expand, you have another function which is partial and partial is important as it
is used to pass any parameters that remain constant across all map tasks generated by expand.
Let's say you want to add the number ten to every input of that list.
What you can do is create another parameter that you're going to call my constant, for example.
And then in the task you can create a new variable result equals to value plus my constant and then
print the result.
Now to define my constant you're going to use dot partial before calling expand.
So here partial.
And then you define ten to my constant.
Like that.
Therefore the scheduler will generate the following tasks one.
Print value task with value equals one.
And then my constant equals ten.
then value equals two.
My constant equals ten and value equals three.
My constant equals ten.
So as you can see here, for each mapped value the constant doesn't change.
And that's the goal of partial.
Don't try to do that like my constant equals ten.
That won't work.
You will get an error.
All right.
While dynamic task mapping is better than creating a for loop or calling your task multiple times,
that doesn't show the true power of using dynamic task mapping.
Because remember, dynamic task mapping shines when you need to generate tasks on an input that you
don't know in advance.
So for example, here, instead of having this static list of inputs, let's create another task that
we're going to call extract values that doesn't take any parameters and returns a list of integers.
However, that list will be randomly generated, so you don't know in advance how many numbers you will
have in that list.
For that you import Randint and then you return the following list.
Each time the task runs, you will get a list with one up to eight numbers in it.
Last but not least, replace this static list by the task.
Extract values.
And just like that, if you save the file and go on the UI, you can see the two tasks extract value
and print value.
If you carefully take a look at print value, you have a pair of square brackets, and whenever you
see a pair of square brackets, that means this task is using dynamic task mapping.
So now let's trigger the data pipeline to see how many tasks are we going to generate according to the
inputs sent by extract value.
So trigger the Dag okay.
Go to the runs and then click on the run.
And you can see that seven tasks have been generated.
Why?
Because extract values returned a list with seven values.
Let's trigger the Dag again.
And now we obtain three tasks.
Why?
Because extract values returned a list with three values.
In fact, if you click on print value, you can access on the right the different task instances that
have been generated automatically using dynamic task mapping.
To sum up, you should use dynamic task mapping whenever you want to generate tasks according to inputs
that you don't know in advance that you know once you run your data pipeline.
And here we are using extract values that returns a list of values, but we don't know how many values
we get at each run.
But we don't care because we are using dynamic task mapping.
And so we're going to generate a print value task for every mapped value.
And the way to do it is very simple.
You call the task that you want to map with dot expand, and then you pass the list of values that you
want to map to the parameter of your task.
And finally, if you have a constant value so a value that you don't want to change for every task generation,
you can use partial for that.

--- Fetch outputs from dynamic tasks ---

In the previous video, we have created two tasks.
The first one, extract values, returns a list and you don't know how many numbers, how many values
you're going to get in that list in advance.
Because remember this is defined randomly.
And then for each value of that list we generate a print value task.
Also, for every generated print value task, we pass two parameters one of the values of the list right
here, as well as the constant ten.
Then we sum the constant ten with one of the values of the list, and we print the total on the standard
output.
For example, here 11, then 12 and 13.
To do that we had to use two functions.
The first one is dot partial in order to define the constant ten.
That doesn't change for every generated task, and then dot map in order to map each value in that list
to a print value task.
Now let's say you want to sum all the values that all the mapped tasks return.
So for example here you want to sum 1112 and 13.
And this remember is the reduce part which by the way you don't have to use.
But it's interesting to know how can you do that.
So let's take a look at the code.
The first step is to modify a little bit the print value task because indeed we don't return any value
here.
So instead of printing the value on the standard output we are going to remove this and return the result.
Okay.
So value plus my constant.
And then we're going to create a new task called sum values that takes a list of values.
And you can see here you have a list of integers that returns an integer.
And here you're just going to use print some values.
Then let's rename print value add value And then call add value here with partial and expand.
And we want to get the list of outputs that the mapped tasks return.
So for that you can create a new variable numbers equals to this expression.
And then you call some values.
With the numbers as the parameter like that.
And now if you save the file and go on the airflow UI, you can see that your Dag has a new task.
Some values.
Let's trigger the Dag then select the run.
You can see that eight tasks have been generated, which means extract values returned a list of eight
values.
And now if you click on some values and take a look at the logs, you can see the total right here.
So just keep in mind if you want to fetch the outputs of the mapped tasks, you just need to create
a variable like that.
That takes the expression.
And then you can do whatever you want with your following tasks.

--- Transform and filter dynamic task outputs ---

In this video, you are going to discover how you can transform the outputs of your dynamic tasks using
map.
Let's get started.
Okay, so imagine that you have the following data pipeline where you have the task extract files that
returns a list of files.
For example here a dot txt b and c dot txt.
Also you have a constant which is path slash tmp slash.
So ultimately what you want to do here is to add the path slash tmp slash to each file.
So for that you can use dynamic task mapping again because maybe the next day you won't receive three
files but five instead.
And you want to have a task at path for every file that you get from extract files.
Now imagine that you want to filter on a specific file extension.
For example, you want to keep only the txt files and not the zip files.
For that you can use a method called map.
The first step is to create a function, not a task but a function.
So for example that function could be filter file extension.
And then using map you will call that function.
So filter file extension on the outputs of your dynamic tasks.
So basically all the outputs here will go through the function filter file extension.
And so just like that you will be able to get the output that you want which is a.txt and b dot txt
without b zip.
And this is super powerful because it's very easy to implement as you're going to see in a second.
Okay.
So let's take a look at that.
All right so back to the data pipeline.
We have to make some modifications here.
The first one is to rename extract values to extract files that returns a list of strings.
And then here we just return the following list with a dot, txt beat zip and c dot txt then add value
is going to be changed by add path and we want as parameters the file which is a string, the path which
is a string, and that task returns a string as well corresponding to the path.
Slash the file.
So for example tmp tmp slash and so on.
Then you can remove some values as we don't use that task anymore.
And now as a quick exercise try to modify this line.
So you are actually using extract files and add path in the right way.
And the constant should be slash tmp.
So let's take a few seconds.
Don't hesitate to pause the video now and let's take a look at the solution.
So first you need to change add value by add path because you want to generate one add path task for
every output returned by extract files.
And then for the partial, the constant.
That should not be my constant.
It should be path.
So you rename the parameter to path and the value is slash tmp like that.
And then for expand here it's not value anymore.
It is file because that's what expects at path.
And here you don't use exact values but you use extract files again so that every output returned by
extract files that's going to generate the corresponding add path task.
And just like that you are able to generate tasks dynamically according to the number of files returned
by extract files.
Okay, now what if you want to filter on this list of files?
Because now if you run your Dag, you will end up with slash tmp dot, txt tmp zip, and so on.
But what if you want to keep only the.
TXT files.
Well we need to create a function.
So let's create a function.
And that function can be outside of your Dag.
And it's just a Python function.
So let's do that filter file extension.
And that takes a file as a parameter which is a string.
And it's going to return a string.
Then we just create the following condition.
If file or split is equal to zip then we want to return none.
Otherwise we're going to return the file.
Okay.
So that's pretty simple.
We just want to filter on the extensions.
And as soon as we see a zip file then we want to skip it.
We want to return none.
Next we need to apply this function to every file that we have in this list.
So let's do that here.
Instead of calling this variable files it's going to be path files because we have the path and the
file tmp dot txt tmp P slash, b dot, zip, and so on.
And then just under that line we can create a new variable filtered files equals to.
And this is where it's interesting.
We're going to call path files and then dot map.
And here we apply the function filter file extension.
So we just need to call filter file extension.
And just like that this function will be called on every input that we have in that path files in that
list of files.
Okay.
And that's how you can apply transformations or filtering on the outputs of your tasks.
To see the final result, we can create a new task that we're going to call print valid files.
And that task takes a list of files.
As you can see here, that returns nothing.
And we want to print each file.
So for that we're going to loop on the files and then print each file like that.
Okay then last but not least, don't forget to call print valid files with the filtered files as the
value of this parameter.
So now we have that you can save the file and take a look at the airflow UI.
While this solution works, we can do better indeed, in the list of files here, we are still getting
known because of beta zip that we don't want.
Remember in that function, whenever we have a zip file, then we return null.
But do we want that?
Do we want to have a list of files and some knowns?
No we don't.
So instead we just want to have the valid files with no known values.
For that, we can just filter on the file extension before generating the tasks.
And after generating the tasks, we want to skip the task that processes zip.
So at the end we don't have known values.
In this list of files we only have valid files doing that.
It's pretty simple.
First, we have to modify the filter file extension to skip a task.
You need to import the corresponding airflow skip exception.
So at the top of the file type from airflow dot exceptions.
And then you import the airflow skip exception.
Then here instead of returning none we want to raise an exception.
So we're going to raise an airflow skip exception with the following message skipping file.
Because it has a zip extension.
And if the file doesn't contain a zip extension then we still want to return the file.
Okay.
Then at the bottom of the Dag we want to filter on the list that extract files returns.
Okay.
So we don't want to filter on the output of the generated tasks at path.
We want to filter on the list that extract files returns.
So let's do that just before generating the tasks.
We're going to create a new variable.
Filtered files equals to extract files.
And this time dot map filter file extension.
And here we're going to pass filtered files to the file parameter here instead of extract files.
And you can remove this part.
And then don't forget to change the variable here with valid files.
Use that variable here in order to print the valid files.
So you see we've just did the opposite.
Now we filter first and then we generate the tasks in order to skip the tasks that process zip files
and keep the others.
Last but not least, don't forget to remove the parenthesis right here.
Otherwise you will get an error.
Save the file and now this time to verify if it works.
If you go on the airflow UI and the DAGs view, make sure that you are able to see your Dag.
If not, then maybe you haven't saved the file.
Or maybe you have an error right here indicating that you made a mistake in your code.
Then click on your Dag and you can turn on the toggle right here, and then trigger your Dag by clicking
on that button.
Then you click on trigger.
You wait a little bit until the first run is completed.
Perfect.
Now you can click on runs and click on the Dag run and you can see all of your tasks.
If you carefully take a look right here, you have one of the tasks among the add path tasks.
This one that has been skipped, which is expected because it corresponds to one of the files that has
the zip extension.
So congratulations, because that means you have been able to filter the outputs of the first task,
extract files in order to remove the files that have the zip extension and keep the others.
However, if you take a look at the last task of your Dag print valid files, this one has been skipped
as well.
Why in airflow?
The way your tasks run is pretty simple.
So imagine that you have the following data pipeline.
If A runs and then succeeds, then B and C run and then succeed.
And finally you have D that will run and then succeeds.
However, if you have one of the tasks let's say B that has been skipped, then in that case the task
D will be skipped as well.
And that's the default behavior in airflow.
And this is controlled by the trigger rules which is another concept.
So I won't dive into the details here.
But what you need to remember is that every task that you create in airflow has a default trigger rule
set to all underscore success.
And so because of that, all underscore success trigger rule.
If one of the upstream tasks of a task is skipped, then the task is skipped as well.
And that's what we can see here.
To avoid that, you need to change this trigger rule by another one, which is non failed mean one underscore
success.
And by setting that trigger rule now the will succeed because at least one of the upstream tasks here
see has succeeded and none of them have failed.
Back to your data pipeline here for the task decorator of the print valid files task, you need to set
the trigger rule like that equals to non failed mean one success.
Then you save your Dag file and you go back on the airflow UI, then trigger your Dag again.
Wait a little bit for the second Dag run to complete.
Click on runs.
Click on the second Dag run and as you can see now print valid files has been executed as expected.
So that's it for this video.
I know it's a lot, but now you fully understand how to use the map method in order to filter and modify
the outputs of some upstream tasks and send the results to downstream tasks.
This is a super powerful concept.

--- Mapping tasks on dictionaries ---

So far, you know how to dynamically generate tasks based on the output of a task.
That's what you did with extract files and the list of files right here.
So you have generated those tasks, and then you know how to use map in order to filter the outputs
generated by those tasks and keep only the files with the txt extension, which is great.
But if you carefully take a look, the path is the same for every file.
So what if we want to have a different path for each one of these?
Well, that's what you are going to discover because you want to use expand anymore, but a variation
of this one.
Let's dive in back to your data pipeline.
As you can see right here, we are generating tasks based on the files that we have coming from filtered
files.
But the path is static as we are using partial.
So the question is what if we want to use different paths for our files.
How can we do that.
Well naively you could do something like that.
So if we have a path that has two parameters file and path.
Then maybe you will do something like that with path equals to a list of strings, and then slash tmp
and then let's say slash home and then slash var okay.
And you can remove the partial part right here.
But if you do that let me show you what you obtain.
If you trigger that data pipeline and take a look at the add path task right here.
You can see here that we end up with nine tasks.
However we have three files A, B and C and three paths.
So what is happening here?
Because you could expect to have one task for slash tmp and then a txt, then one task for slash home
and then b zip and one task for slash var and then c dot txt.
Well, basically when you do something like that, when you expand on multiple parameters in this way
you are actually doing a cross product.
Basically, airflow does the following.
It creates a task GMP with a txt, then GMP with Bzip, then GMP and TXT and it goes on like that until
the nine tasks are created.
But here what we want is one task for GMP at TXT, another one home bzip and the last one for txt.
So how can we do that?
Well, when you have a task that has multiple arguments like for add path with file and path you can
use expand.
And expand.
Keyword expects a list of dictionaries where the dictionaries have keys corresponding to the arguments
of the task that you want to map on.
So concretely, instead of having that, you end up with something like that, a list of dictionaries
and the first dictionary could be file.
And then here a txt.
With the path tmp.
Okay so this is the first task that you will generate.
Then another dictionary, but this time for Bzip.
And here the path could be slash home and then the last one, which this time is for txt.
And then here we have slash var.
Okay.
And as you can see for each task we generate we map the arguments file and path as described right here.
And that's how zinc works works.
And if you run the Dag again you can see that now we have three tasks as expected.
However the dependency is a little bit messed up.
So let's fix that.
The first step is to look at the extract files task.
As you can see, we return a list of files, but instead we want to return a list of dictionaries with
the file and the corresponding path for every dictionary.
So here let's modify that so that we have the following list of dictionaries.
So here file and then a.txt.
Then path and slash tmp.
And we do the same for the other files as well.
So bzip and txt and you can see the corresponding path.
And once we have this list of dictionaries and remember that you have to change the returning type right
there.
So list dictionaries and then string and string.
We need to modify the filter file extension function.
Remember that this function will be called for every dictionary that we return from extract files.
So we just need to modify the type here.
It's not a string anymore.
It is a dictionary with string for the keys and string for the values.
And then we can just put file path instead of just file.
And then here we can access the file with file path and then file for the key.
We verify if the file has the zip extension.
If so we want to skip that file.
So here again we put file path file just to indicate in the logs that this file has been skipped because
it has a zip extension.
And then here we can just return the dictionary.
So file path okay.
So if the file has not zip extension then we return the dictionary.
And that's it for the function.
Now back to the dependencies.
You can remove all of that and instead put filtered file path and use filtered file path like that.
And now if you save the file and take a look at the airflow UI, if you trigger the Dag again you will
end up with three tasks and one skipped.
And if you click on one of those tasks, let's say this one, you can see in the logs that here we have
slash var slash txt.
If we check another one.
So let's say this one we can see here slash tmp slash txt.
All right.
So that's how you can use expand key to dynamically generate tasks that has multiple arguments to map
to.
Last but not least, keep in mind that you can use expand kwargs on existing arguments.
Okay, so for example, if you have a bash operator and you have the env parameter, the env argument,
then you can map on it as well.
Okay.
You can actually map on pretty much any argument that an operator has using expand key.

--- Combining dynamic task outputs ---

In this video, you will discover maybe one of the most unknown features of airflow, as you will learn
how to combine multiple upstream outputs together.
Let me show you that in the previous video, we have modified extract files so that it returns the following
list of dictionaries with two keys the file and the path.
However, I'm not a huge fan of having extract files that returns the path.
So what if instead we want to have a different task that returns the path and keep extract files that
returns the files?
Something like that.
So one task extract files that returns the list of files, and another task extract path that returns
the list of paths.
But now the question is how can we combine those two upstream outputs together?
So at the end we end up with the following list of values where we have a txt with GMP, then bzip with
slash home and then txt with slash var to combine multiple input sources like those two lists together,
you will use a method called zip.
And this is not even an airflow feature, it is a Python built in feature.
So let's discover how to use zip in order to obtain that list of tuples corresponding to the files and
path back to your data pipeline.
The first step is to create a second task after extract files that will be called extract path and returns
a list of string.
And that list of strings is pretty simple.
It is slash tmp, slash home and var.
Then we have to modify extract files.
So instead of returning a list of dictionaries, we're going to return a list of strings as well.
Like that.
And here we want to return the list of files.
So let's remove this.
And put the files instead.
So a.txt bzip and txt.
All right.
So now we have the two tasks.
Extract files and extract path.
The next step is to call the zip function in order to combine this list with that one.
So let's go at the bottom of the Dag.
And after extract files you call dot zip and you pass extract path like that.
And by doing this you will create a list of tuples with the file in the first position and the path
in the second position exactly as shown right here.
Finally, we need to modify the filter file extension function because now it takes a tuple.
So here change the type of the file path argument to tuple and then string string.
Right.
Because the path is a string and the file is a string.
And then instead of doing file path with the key file here you put zero to get the file.
And then here you do the same.
Zero to get the file.
And last but not least, instead of returning a file path because you don't want to return a tuple here,
remember that you use expand key after and expand key expects a list of dictionaries.
So you need to return a dictionary here and not a tuple.
So let's do that.
You create a dictionary with the following keys.
File equals to file path zero and then path.
Equals to file path one.
And here you change the type as well.
So you return a dictionary with string and string.
And that's it.
So if you save the file and take a look at the UI, you will end up with the following data pipeline
with the two tasks.
Extract path and extract files that will be upstream to add path.
Let's trigger the data pipeline to see if it works and click on runs.
And as you can see, it works.
And we have the three add path tasks as expected, with one that has been skipped corresponding to the
B zip file.
And if you click on print Valid files, you can see in the logs that we do have tmp a.txt and txt as
expected.
All right.
So keep in mind that zip allows you to combine multiple input sources together.
And in order to call zip you need to use a task.
For example here task A then you call zip and you pass your second task.
Those two tasks must return a list of values, as zip will combine those lists together in order to
obtain a list of tuples with your values in it.
So for example, here you can see that you have three tuples.
And then in those tuples you have value A coming from task A and then value one coming from task b and
then value b coming from task A, and then two coming from task B, and so on.
Okay.
So that's how it works with zip.
If you want to have a more concrete use case with zip, you can take a look at this code, which comes
from the airflow documentation, by the way.
And the idea here is to download files from a bucket and rename those files.
So basically you have a list of files coming from the S3 bucket.
And then you have a list of file names that you want to use to rename your files that come from the
S3 bucket.
Then you combine those two lists together to obtain a list of tuples, and each tuple has the file coming
from the S3 bucket and the file name that you want to use.
And finally, you have this task where you download the file coming from the first task A3 list operator
and the file name that you want to use coming from the second list right here.
And that's how you can just download files and automatically rename them right away.
Last but not least, if you are confused by the output here and the fact that we are using an operator
instead of the task decorator with expand.
Don't worry, I will show you that later in the course.

--- Concatenate dynamic task outputs ---

If you remember in the previous video, you have discovered the zip method that allows you to combine
multiple upstreams together, so you end up with a list of tuples exactly as you can see here, right?
You have a.txt with tmp, then bzip with home, and then txt with var.
Now it is time to discover another method, but this time you're not going to combine the elements like
that in tuples.
You are going to concatenate the outputs together so you end up with one single list.
So let me show you how to do that.
And maybe first an example.
A very common pattern in data pipelines is to have multiple sources from which you want to extract data
from.
And basically imagine that now you have two tasks.
One task to extract data from source A, and another task to extract data from source B.
And basically the first task returns the following list of files.
And then you have the second task that returns the following list of files.
The question is how can you combine those two outputs together?
So you obtain just one big list of all the files you want to process?
Well, in order to obtain this list, you will use another method called concat and concat concatenates
the two lists together, so you obtain one big list corresponding to the outputs of your upstream tasks.
And I want to emphasize that this is different from the zip method.
Remember that with zip, you end up with a list of tuples, okay, and not a list of strings as shown
right here with your elements combined together.
So for example, here you end up with a dot, txt with dot, txt zip with e dot txt and c dot txt with
f dot txt.
Okay, so again very different than with concat where you actually add this list to this list.
Back to our data pipeline.
Let's imagine that instead of extracting the files from one task, we actually have two tasks as we
extract files from two different sources.
So let's create those two tasks.
The first one using the task decorator again.
And here let's say extract Files from A and again that returns a list of strings.
And that list of strings corresponds to this one.
And then we can remove the extract files task here and create another task.
This time it is from source B again that returns a list of strings with the following list like that.
Okay, so now we have two tasks.
Extract files from source A that returns the following list of files, and extract files from source
B that returns the following list of files.
Now the goal is to concatenate this list of files with this one.
And for that you need to use concat.
So let's go at the bottom of the Dag.
And just before this variable let's create a new one.
Files equals to extract files from source A.
And then you call concat like that.
And you pass the task extract files from source B, and so just like that, you end up with one big
list of files that comes from the task.
Extract files from source A and extract files from source B, and keep in mind that you can chain multiple
concat.
So for example let's say you have another task extract files from source C.
Then you can do something like that concat.
And then you call the task extract files from source C okay.
This is possible.
You are not limited to two tasks okay.
So now we have this list of files.
The next step is to use it right here okay with the zip.
So save the file and let's see what we get on the airflow UI.
If you go to the DAGs view ensure that you are able to see your Dag.
If not, that means you made a mistake in your Dag code and you have to fix it first.
Then click on your Dag.
And as you can see on the graph view, you have three tasks.
Extract path and then extract files from source B and extract files from source A.
Remember that as we use the zip method with the extract files from source Tasks and extract path, we're
going to create tuples with the files coming from those two tasks and the path coming from this task.
And then we will run the different generated tasks with add path.
So let's see what we obtain if we trigger that data pipeline.
So click on trigger then trigger and wait for the run to complete.
Perfect.
Now let's click on it.
And if you follow, you might be a little bit confused because we are still generating three tasks.
However, as we are using concat with those two tasks, source B and source A, we should end up with
six tasks corresponding to the six files that we have right here.
So why are we getting still three tasks instead of six?
Well, remember that we are using zip with the list that we generate and extract path task.
However, the way the zip method work right here is that if you have two lists, one with six elements
and one with three elements.
Then zip returns a list with three elements.
It returns a list that has the length of the shortest list that you are using with zip.
In this case, the shortest list is the one that returns, so only three elements.
So let's take a look.
If we add three more elements.
So let's say again slash tmp slash home and slash var and save the file.
Then if you trigger the Dag again now you have the six tasks as expected.
And if we look at the task instances we have four tasks.
Add path in success one, two, three and four corresponding to the files txt.
TXT.
TXT and txt.
And then we have two tasks.
Add path in skipped status one and two corresponding to the files pkzip and zip.
So congratulations because at this point you know how to use concat to concatenate multiple outputs
together coming from multiple upstream tasks.
And also, you know a detail of the zip method that might be useful if you have lists of different sizes.

--- Don't get lost with your dynamic tasks ---

At this point you know how to generate tasks dynamically.
However, we could do something better because if you look at the tasks that we generate, we have a
bunch of add path tasks, but we don't know which one does what.
Right?
Like we don't know which one corresponds to which file.
If we want to know that, then we have to click on a task and then look at the logs right here.
So is there a better way to know which task corresponds to which file?
Well, yes, there is.
And I'm going to show you that in a few seconds.
First, remember that by default when you generate tasks dynamically, airflow assigns an integer index
to each generated task.
So for example you can see here add path with the map index five and then this one with the map index
four and then three one, two and zero.
Okay.
Now this map index is very useful when, for example you want to fetch a Xcom, that generated task
creates.
In that case, when you call the Xcom pool method you indicate the map index.
So you can refer to a specific generated task.
While you cannot modify the task ID, you can modify the map index for every generated task so that
instead of having an integer right here, you will have, for example, the file that this task corresponds
to.
So let's do that at the top of your Dag file.
After the task decorator, you add a function get current context that comes from the airflow SDK.
And then you go to the task that you map which is add underscore path.
And here you need to add a parameter which is map index template and map index.
Template expects a templated string.
If you don't know about templating, take a look at the corresponding section in the course.
So whatever you put as a value of the map index template that will be used for the map index value on
the airflow UI.
So for example, if you put a string like my task that my task string will appear on every map index
value for each generated task.
But you don't really want that, right?
I mean, again, having a constant value for each task is not that useful.
So instead we would like to put this string corresponding to the path and the file as the map index
value of the generated task.
So how can you do that?
Well, it's pretty easy.
You just need to fetch the context of your task with get current context.
Okay.
So when you run a task that task has an associated context.
And this is what you are fetching here.
And then you create a new variable in that context.
So let's say the path or file path.
And that file path variable is equal to this path.
And with that you can just modify this string and use templating with two pairs of curly brackets.
And here you call file path.
And this value will be replaced at runtime.
So when the task runs when the task is generated with the following file path.
And that's it.
If you save the file and go back on the airflow UI, then trigger the Dag again and go back to the runs
and select the latest one.
So this one you can see that instead of having an integer value for the map index column, we have the
corresponding file path slash var ft xt here for txt a.txt and txt.
So you know already that this task is for the txt file.
This one is for the a.txt file and so on.
Much better isn't it?
However, some of you will notice that the tasks that have been skipped have still their map index value
with an integer, as you can see here four and one.
And this is due to the exception that we raised right here.
When we filter on the file extension, if the file has a zip extension, then we raise that exception.
When we raise that exception we raise it before this template is resolved.
And so that's why we are still getting an integer instead of the file path.
Now if you want to solve that you will need to raise the exception after you generate all the tasks.
So that means you do the map after all the files are generated.
So for example here and that will solve the issue.
Or you can just avoid raising an exception and do something else if you have a zip extension okay.
All right.
So that's it for this video.
Now you know how to give a name for the map index value to your generated tasks.
So you know which one does what.

--- How to mix with traditional operators? ---

At this point, you know many features that allows you to turn your static workflow into a dynamic one.
However, so far we have used only the task decorator.
So what if you don't use the task decorator?
Can you still use dynamic task mapping with traditional operators?
Well, that's what you are going to discover right now.
All right.
So to show you how to use dynamic task mapping with traditional operators, we're going to create a
new Dag, a very simple one okay.
That's just for the example.
So create a new Dag traditional_mapping.py.
And again you will find the file under that video on Udemy.
And here let's make some imports.
So from airflow SDK we import the Dag and task.
And then we're going to create the Dag with Dag decorator.
And let's call that Dag traditional mapping.
And here we want to create a task.
Let's say we want to call it extract data.
And that task returns the following list of integers.
Now imagine that you want to use the Python operator, not the task decorator anymore, but the Python
operator.
So the first step is to import it so from airflow providers.
Then standard and then operators.
And you import from Python.
The Python operator.
Now let's create another task.
So this time by using the Python operator.
So let's say my task equals to the Python operator.
And then the task id which will be my task.
And some additional parameters that we're going to define in a second.
Next as we use the Python operator we have to create a Python function that this operator calls.
So just above the Dag let's create that Python function.
We can call it my function.
That takes a parameter which is an integer and that returns an integer.
And in that function we just want to multiply by two the value that we get as a parameter.
Okay.
And now that function you want to call it.
So here you have Python callable equals to myfunction.
Now your goal is to map every value that extract data returns so one, two and three to the task.
My task using the Python operator so that each time my function is called, you will pass one, two
and three.
So basically you want to generate three tasks corresponding to the three values that you have.
And those three tasks will call my function for every integer in that list.
For that you know how to do it right.
Even with the traditional operators, you still have to use dot expand and then you need to use the
parameter you want to map.
So in that case, as we are using the Python operator, it is op.
And a very important thing to remember for any operator you want to use, you must know the type of
the parameter you want to map.
So here op args expects a list.
So if you directly do something like that extract data.
It won't work.
Why it won't work because op args expects a list.
But you will get an integer, right one, two and three.
So to solve that, you can put every integer in that list in a list.
So for example here one is in the list then two and three okay.
So you have lists into a list.
And now it will work.
So just remember each time you want to map a parameter of an operator you must know the type of that
parameter.
Otherwise you may have some weird issues.
Finally, don't forget to call the Dag at the end of the file like that.
And now you can just start your, for instance, if it is not already running.
So either you type Astro Dev Start or Astro Dev restart.
So for me, let's go with Astro Dev, start and wait a little bit until our flow is up and running on
the flow UI.
If you go to your DAGs, you will see an error and if you click on it you can see this message.
Python operator object has no attribute.
Expand.
Well, what does that mean?
Does that mean that I cannot use expand with the Python operator?
Well obviously not.
So let me show you what is going on here.
When you use a traditional operator like the Python operator, you have to use partial.
Okay.
So remember that partial allows you to define static parameters like parameters that you don't want
to map.
And in that case what you don't want to map is task ID as well as Python callable.
But since we don't use partial here and only expand then we are receiving that error.
So that's why you need to do something like that dot partial in order to indicate to airflow that those
parameters will not be mapped and are static.
Now, if you save the file and go back on the airflow UI, you can see that the error is gone.
Okay.
So keep that in mind.
It's a very easy mistake to make.
You have to use partial for parameters that don't change.
For example the task id.
So pretty much each time you use the traditional operator, you will have to use partial at least for
the task ID, the unique identifier of your task.
So now let's click on the Dag Traditional Mapping and trigger it to see how many tasks we get.
If we go to the runs and click on the run and then go to the graph view, you can see that we have three
generated tasks as expected.
All right.
At this point you know how to map the values that come from a task decorator to a traditional operator
here the Python operator.
But now imagine that instead of using the decorator here you use the Python operator or any traditional
operator.
How does it work?
Well, let me show you that.
So here we're going to copy this function and paste it here like that.
So nothing changed here.
And now we're going to create a new variable.
So extract data equals to the Python operator.
And then a task ID which is extract data.
And the Python callable function will be extract data.
Okay.
So that should not be surprising to you.
It's very very classic.
But now how do you map what comes from extract data using the traditional Python operator with my task
here.
How do you do that?
Because if you try to do that like this okay, extract data, it won't work.
You will receive an error.
So the question is how do you map the data that comes from a traditional operator with a parameter in
a traditional operator?
Well, this is where you have to use.
Output.
And now you may say, well what the hell is that?
Well that output actually, when the task runs, resolves as context.
And then t dot Xcom pool.
And the task IDs extract data.
Okay.
So dot output again when the task runs becomes this line.
And it's just a very nice way to pull the data that comes from your traditional operator, your previous
task.
And so just like that you will pass the data.
So this list to Opacs.
And you will be able to dynamically generate your tasks using traditional Python operator.
One last thing.
When you are using traditional operators, you have to define the dependencies explicitly.
Okay, Remember that with the decorators, you don't have to.
Airflow is able to infer the dependencies automatically.
But for the traditional operators, you have to define the dependencies explicitly.
So here you want to run extra data first and then my task.
Last but not least I just made a quick mistake.
You cannot have the function called extract data like that.
And also the variable that has the Python operator called extract data.
So instead let's add an underscore here and same thing here.
And that's it.
So save the file and go on the airflow UI on the text view.
If you click on traditional mapping you can see your Dag exactly like before.
Let's trigger it to see if it works.
Okay let's click on the last run.
And you can see that we have successfully generated three tasks, but now only using traditional operators
like the Python operator.
Keep in mind, regardless of the traditional operator, if you want to use dynamic task mapping with
a traditional operator, you will always have to define explicitly the dependencies, and also you will
have to use dot output as well as partial for the static parameters.

--- How to use AI in Airflow ---

I'm super excited to see you for this video, because this one is the first video of a series about
using AI with airflow, or should I say AI in airflow.
So let's get into it.
There are multiple ways to implement AI in your airflow DAGs, but I would like to show you the most
convenient ones.
And I think in my opinion, there are two ways which are the AI SDK and the human in the loop operators.
Let's begin with the AI SDK.
The AI SDK is a Python SDK for working with Llms from airflow.
It allows users to call Llms and orchestrate agent calls directly within their airflow pipelines.
Using decorator based tasks.
You can take a look at the repository of the project.
First thing first, it is open source and free.
So if you want to contribute or if you just want to use it, you can.
And if you scroll down and take a look at the readme, you have some of the features.
For example, the LLM decorator that allows you to define a task that calls language models to process
text.
You have the LM branch, which is a smarter version of the branch Python operator, because the task
that the branch operator chooses is based on the output of LM.
So it's basically an LM that chooses which task to execute next, and so on.
So you have a bunch of decorators that you can use in your DAGs, and you even have an example right
here.
But don't worry, we will come back at that later in the course.
In addition to the airflow AI SDK, you have the human in the loop operators, which are new in airflow
3.1 and human in the loop operators allow you to incorporate human decision making directly into your
workflows.
This powerful feature enables workflow to pause and wait for human input, making it perfect for approval
processes, manual quality checks, and scenarios where human judgment is essential.
So now you have a better idea of the two most convenient ways of using AI in airflow.
I'll see you in the next video to dive deeper into those both topics.

--- Querying LLMs in DAGs ---

To illustrate the airflow AI SDK and how you can use AI in your data pipelines, you are going to create
one data pipeline that uses AI, and this data pipeline will generate recipes according to a list of
ingredients or actually multiple lists of ingredients.
So basically you will start by creating a task.
Get ingredients that returns a list or multiple lists of ingredients from a fake API.
And then you will create another task generate recipe where the magic happens.
And last but not least, you have a display recipes task that displays the different recipes that the
LM would have generated.
So again, keep in mind generate recipe is where we will use the LM decorator to call LM so that it
generates a recipe for every list of ingredients that we have.
So without further ado, let's dive into the code to follow this video and the others.
Going forward, you will need to create an API key on whatever platform you want, so it can be OpenAI,
Anthropic or Gemini, but you have to have a key, otherwise you won't be able to call an LLM.
Once you have generated your API key on the platform you want to use, you need to open the env file
in your airflow project and then export the following environment variable.
If you are using OpenAI, if you are using Gemini, then you change OpenAI by Gemini.
And if you are using anthropic then you have to put anthropic.
But just keep in mind, put your API key here and then save the file.
Next you have to open the requirements.txt file and you add the airflow SDK package with the model you
want to use.
Here OpenAI.
But again you have the choice between multiple models.
If you want to use cloud, then you can put anthropic.
If you want to use grok, you can put grok and so on.
You have the list of models that you can use right here.
Finally, save the file and restart your airflow instance with Astro Dev Keel and Astro dev start if
you are using the astro CLI.
Otherwise docker compose done and then docker compose up g.
Remember we have to do that in order to install this airflow ai SDK package.
All right.
So now we have set up all the prerequisites.
Let's create the data pipeline.
So for that in the DAGs folder create a new Dag file called recipe generator.py.
And then we need to import from airflow SDK the task and dag decorator which you should be very familiar
with now.
Next we create the Dag with the following parameters.
So for example schedule to none.
So we want to trigger that data pipeline manually.
We can set a description for example generate recipes based on the user's preferences or actually a
list of ingredients that would be better.
And then we can also add some tags like recipe generator and AI.
So we know that this data pipeline uses AI.
Once we have that, we define the Dag.
So recipe generator and we call it at the end of the Dag file like that.
Okay.
Next create the first task.
Get ingredients.
That returns a list of dictionaries.
And here you may return the following two list of ingredients.
So for example here we have one list main ingredients and pantry items.
For the main ingredients we have the chicken breast and the tomatoes.
Then for the pantry items we have olive oil, garlic and so on.
And for the second list we have salmon fillet lemon.
And for the pantry items we have butter, garlic and so on.
So again feel free to put whatever you want for your ingredients.
But we will generate recipes from those lists.
So once you have the get ingredients task defined, the next step is to create the most interesting
task of the Dag, which is generate recipe and generate recipe uses the task decorator because remember
we want to ask an LLM to generate those recipes for us.
So let's use add task.
And then you need to pass some parameters.
The first parameter is the model that you want to use let's say GPT five mini.
But you can pick the model you prefer.
In addition to the model you need to specify the output type which is here recipe.
And the output type is basically the output that your LLM will follow.
So here recipe is a base class.
So you have to import the base class.
So at the top of your Dag file from airflow AI SDK you import base model.
And then you create a new model or class which is recipe that inherits from base model.
And you pass some properties like a name because you want a name for your recipe.
You also want the cuisine as well as prep time minutes.
So how long does it take to prepare this recipe?
A description for your recipe.
And last but not least, the steps, which is a list of strings.
Again, the output of the LM will be this.
So for each generated recipe you will have a name, a cuisine, prep time, minutes, description and
the steps.
Okay, so with that we can move forward.
The next parameter to define is the system prompt.
So how the LM should behave and the system prompt is the following one.
So feel free to copy and paste it from the code that you will find under that video on Udemy.
But you can see here you are a creative chef.
Generate a delicious recipe using the provided ingredients.
There are some guidelines.
Make it realistic and achievable for home cooks.
Keep prep time under 45 minutes.
Provide 4 or 6 clear cooking steps.
Create an appealing recipe name.
Feel free to change the guidelines if you want.
But again, the idea here is that you will follow those guidelines to generate a delicious recipe.
So now you have the model, the output type, and the system prompt.
You're ready to define the task.
So here we put def generate recipe that takes one parameter which is ingredient combo which is a dictionary
that returns a string.
And if you wonder why this task returns a string is because that string is a prompt that will be used
to generate your recipe.
So in summary, whatever you return from this task will be used as a prompt in addition to the system
prompt to generate a given recipe.
So now in that task we want to merge the main ingredients with the pantry items.
So let's do it.
Here we create a new variable main equals to this string.
And we join the main ingredients.
And we do the same for the pantry.
Here we join the pantry items.
Once we have that we can return the following string.
Main ingredients.
With the pantry items.
And again we pass this as a prompt to the LM.
In addition to the system prompt and the LM will generate the given recipe.
And that's it.
At this point, you have successfully implemented a workflow that uses AI with the airflow AI SDK.
And that's the beauty of this SDK is that you can just use a decorator like this one to call LM and
generate something using AI.
So now we've done that.
The last step is to create the task to display the recipes.
So let's put the task decorator right here.
And then we create a new task called Display Recipes that takes all the recipes.
So a list of dictionaries and that returns none.
And here we just want to display the recipes so we can do something like that.
So for every recipe we want to print the name of the recipe as well as the cuisine, the prep time,
the description and the steps.
Okay.
And actually for the steps we can do better.
So let's loop over the steps.
So for step in recipe steps we want to print the steps.
And we can even add.
The number.
Okay.
So once you have that we just need to define the dependencies.
So at the bottom of your Dag file just after the tasks here we can create a new variable ingredient
combos equals to get ingredients.
Then we create another variable Recipes equals to generate recipe dot expand because we want to create
a task for every list of ingredients that we have.
So two tasks in that case.
But if we add a new list then we will generate three tasks automatically.
And then we pass the ingredient combos as a parameter.
So here ingredient combos equals to ingredient combos.
And last but not least we call display recipes.
And we pass recipes as parameter of display recipes.
And that's it.
So once you have that, you can save the file and then restart your app for instance by typing Astro
Dev Keel and Astro Dev start.
If you are using Astro CLI or Docker compose down and then docker compose up D.
So let's restart airflow and wait a little bit.
Then once airflow is up and running, you can see I'm getting an error.
So let's click on it.
And I have an unexpected keyword argument ingredient combos.
So let's take a look at the code.
And if we take a look at the parameter of generate recipe.
The parameter is named ingredient combo without a s, but I'm using a s right here, so I have to remove
that's and save the file.
Then go back to the airflow UI, refresh the page and now the error is gone.
So let's take a look at the Dag on the DAGs view.
We have the Dag right here.
We can trigger it.
So trigger Dag and wait until the Dag successfully completes.
Unfortunately it looks like we have an error in one of the tasks.
So let's click on the Dag and look at the last Dag run, which is this one.
And then look at the logs of display recipes.
So here and you can see attribute error dict object has no attribute name.
So let's go back to the code.
And indeed I should not do that.
Instead I should use this notation.
So here name and do the same for cuisine prep time minutes description and then the steps.
So save the file again.
Let's go back to the airflow UI and you can click on the task and we start only this task.
So right here clear task instance.
Wait a little bit and you can see that now the task works.
And most importantly if you carefully take a look at the logs, you can see the first recipe right here
that takes 35 minutes with the different steps.
And you have another one which is lemon garlic butter salmon.
That takes 30 minutes.
But again, you have successfully generated through recipes based on two lists of ingredients that you
passed to the LM.
As a quick exercise, I highly recommend you to play with the recipe, the ingredients, and the system
prompt just to see what you can generate.
When you modify those values.
For example, you could add a spice level to the recipe and then the prompt will tell you if the recipe
is spicy or not, and so on.
Try to be creative, but again, I highly recommend you to play with that dag because it looks simple,
but it can be very powerful.

--- Let AI choose the next task to run ---

In this video, you will discover how to choose to execute one task or another using AI.
And for that we have the LM branch decorator.
Remember, in the airflow AI SDK you have a bunch of decorators and you have the LM branch which change
that control flow based on LM output.
And that opens some pretty amazing possibilities.
So let's dive into it to illustrate the LM branch decorator and how powerful it is.
We will build a new data pipeline.
That data pipeline is the following one.
So first you have get recipe that returns a recipe.
And then you have classify recipe that uses the LM branch decorator.
So this is where the magic happens.
Here the recipe will be classified as beginner intermediate or advanced using LM and obviously according
to the output, you will execute the beginner task, the intermediate task or the advanced task.
So let's build this data pipeline in your code editor, open the folder and create a new Python file
called Recipe
classification.py
and then import from airflow SDK task and Dag.
And then we can instantiate that Dag right away.
So let's put schedule to noon.
Then a description could be classify recipes based on their difficulty level.
And then the tags recipe classification and AI.
Then we define the Dag object which is recipe classification.
And finally we call that Dag at the end okay.
So once we have that the next step is to implement the first task which is get recipe.
For that we use the task decorator and then we define the task which is get recipe that returns a dictionary,
and then we return a dictionary which is the following one.
So you don't have to write everything.
Instead, just copy and paste the code that you will find under that video.
Otherwise it will be pretty annoying to do that.
So this is the recipe that we want to use okay.
So as you can see we have the name of the recipe.
We have the cuisine, we have the prep time, the description and the different steps of the recipe.
Once we have this task that returns the recipe that we want to classify well, we have to create the
classify recipe task.
So let's do it.
In that case we're going to use the task dot lm branch decorator.
And again keep in mind that the LM branch decorator uses the branch Python operator with LM.
So there are a few parameters to define here.
The first one is the model that you want to use.
In that case, we want to stick to GPT five mini.
And then you have to define the system prompt, which is how the LM should behave.
In that case, how the LM should classify a given recipe.
For the system prompt, we use the following one.
And again you can copy and paste that from the code that you will find under that video.
But basically we analyze the recipe and classify its difficulty level based on some criteria like the
number and complexity of cooking techniques required, the number of steps, skill level needed, and
so on.
And then we say return one of the following downstream task names based on the difficulty.
So beginner friendly, intermediate cooking and advanced chef.
But actually you don't have to specify that because the LM branch decorator will automatically infer
what to return.
So what task ID to return based on the downstream tasks that depend on it.
Now we have the two parameters set for the LM branch decorator.
The next step is to define the task.
So here it is.
Classify recipe that takes a recipe and returns a string.
Then here we just have to return the recipe so we can do something like that.
We want to return the recipe name as well as the cuisine, the prep time and the steps.
Okay.
And keep in mind that this will be fed to the LM as a prompt in addition to the system prompt.
And that's it.
So just like that, you have successfully implemented a branch Python operator that uses LM to choose
which downstream task to execute.
And speaking of downstream tasks, we have to define them.
So let's do it just after the classify recipe.
The first task is beginner.
And then that task returns nothing.
Just print beginner recipe.
And we do the same for the second task, which is intermediate and then advanced.
Okay, so at the end you should end up with those three tasks beginner, intermediate and advanced.
Then we just need to define the dependencies.
So at the end we fetch the recipe and then we classify the recipe like that.
And finally we want to execute either beginner intermediate or advanced according to the classification
that the LM produced.
With that let's verify if it works.
So go to your terminal and restart your instance by typing Astro Dev restart if you are using the Astro
CLI.
Otherwise you can run docker compose done and then docker compose up d.
So let's wait a little bit.
If you go on the airflow UI and the DAGs view, you should be able to see your Dag recipe classification.
So let's trigger it and wait until the first Dag run successfully completes.
So we can click on the Dag and then look at the run and click on it and go to the graph.
So you can see that classify recipe is running and advanced and beginner have been skipped, whereas
the intermediate task has been chosen.
So let's take a look at that task.
And we can see that the recipe that we got from here has been classified as an intermediate recipe.
Okay.
So again if you provide a different recipe then the classifier, the LM branch will choose a different
task.
And all of a sudden now you have a smart way to execute one task or another thanks to the LM branch
decorator.

--- There is more.. ---

That's it for the airflow AI SDK.
Indeed, I won't cover the other decorators because in my opinion they are a little bit more advanced
and also you will use them less often.
But I highly recommend you to take a look at the repository of the airflow AI SDK so that if you want
to learn more about those decorators, you can.
But most importantly, you can take a look at the examples folder.
And if you go into it and then the DAGs folder, you have some Dag examples illustrating the different
decorators that you can use in airflow AI SDK.
So take a look at them.
You will learn a lot and I'll see you for the next video.

--- The new AI Operators in Airflow ---

Human in the loop.
Operators are new in airflow 3.1, and they introduce a whole new kind of operators that I'm sure will
be useful whenever you want to use AI in your workflows.
So let's dive into them.
So what exactly are human in the loop workflows?
Well, simply put, they are processes that pause and wait for human intervention before continuing.
So unlike traditional automated pipelines that run end to end without stopping, hitl workflows acknowledge
that sometimes you need a human in the driver's seat to make judgment calls, and this is especially
useful when you use AI in your workflows.
So a typical example is this one.
Imagine that you have the following pipeline with four tasks.
The first one is to fetch a support ticket.
Then you want to generate a response to that ticket using AI.
And then you want to review that response to finally send it.
Because obviously you don't want to send a response to a customer without checking what the AI has generated
first.
To do that, it would be nice to pause at this task review response so you have time to check yourself.
The response that AI generated and if that response is correct, then you want to execute the downstream
tasks.
So in that case send response.
But now the question is how do you pause at that task automatically.
Well in that case review response will be a human in the loop operator.
And the goal of the human in the loop operator is to pause your workflow at some point, so you have
time to check whatever the AI generated.
And if for you it is correct, then you can just accept and the downstream task will continue to be
executed.
So think of human in the loop operators as safeguards for your AI workflows.
They are very useful for you to check if whatever the AI generated is correct or not, so that you don't,
you know, send bad responses or anything wrong to your customers or even stakeholders.
There are many use cases in which human in the loop operators might be useful for you.
For example AI content review.
Imagine you have a pipeline that generates marketing copy using AI well before it gets published.
You want a human to review it and either approve or reject it.
So this is actually a perfect use case for human in the loop operators.
Another one might be compliance workflows.
You have generated a financial report and regulations require a compliance officer to review and acknowledge
it before it moves forward.
So for critical workflows, human in the loop operators are just essentials.
Then you have intelligent routing decisions.
So your AI might be 95% confident about how to classify something.
But for that edge case, 5%, you want a domain expert to make the call on which processing path to
take.
And last but not least, there might be useful for specialized feedback collection.
Maybe you need a subject matter expert to provide specific input or parameters that only they would
know.
And again, with human in the loop operators, you can do that.
That being said, airflow brings different human in the loop operators, and the first one is the human
in the loop operator, which is the base class for all human in the loop operators.
Basically, you can display information, let the user choose one or more from a list of options, and
accept additional input via a form based on airflow params.
So this is an example of the human in the loop operator.
You have to import it, as you can see here.
And then you define a task ID a subject.
You must define a subject, and this subject will be displayed in a form.
As you will see later on the airflow UI.
You can define a body as well, and this body is a templated, field like subject.
And this is the main text body.
Again you will see that on the form on the UI.
Then you can provide some options and the options are required.
A list of strings are rendered as response options at the bottom of the required action form.
And this list cannot be empty.
Again, you have to define a list.
Here we have ABC.
And then the default answer is a.
You can select multiple options if you set this parameter to true.
You have some additional parameters that you can also provide.
And that will be displayed as an input field on the form on the human in the loop form.
And last but not least, you have execution timeout.
Remember that this human in the loop operator pauses your workflow, and here you are saying that after
five minutes the task should succeed or fail.
And that depends on the default value right here.
If you do not set a default value, then the task will fail.
If you define a default value, then the task will succeed after five minutes.
Another similar human in the loop operator is the human in the loop entry operator.
So as you can see, we import it again from airflow providers standard operators human in the loop.
And then you define the task with a task ID and the subject exactly like for the human in the loop operator,
you define a body again like the human in the loop operator.
And then you can define params as well.
So those params will be displayed in the form that you will see under the required actions tab on the
airflow UI.
But you will see that later in the course.
So just keep in mind that this human in the loop entry operator is a specialized form of the human in
the loop operator, where the user provides input to a form.
So that's what you can see.
You have two inputs and then submits the input without choosing from a list of options.
You have to give values to some inputs.
To sum up.
Imagine you decide to use the human in the loop operator or the human in the loop entry operator for
this task.
What will happen is that basically you fetch a support ticket and then once you are on this task, your
workflow pauses and you will go on the airflow UI under the required actions tab where you will see
a form.
So for example, you will have like an input text.
And then you add some additional information regarding that ticket.
And finally you validate the form.
So you submit it.
And the value here will be used to feed your AI so that it can generate a better response.
Okay.
So that's the idea of the two human loop operators we saw is to create a form so that we can provide
additional inputs to your AI.
Okay.
So that's it for the human in the loop operator and the human in the loop entry operator.
There are two other human in the loop operators that you will discover in action in the next videos.

--- Do you approve? ---

When you use AI in your workflows, it is important to ensure that what the AI generates is correct
before passing the output to downstream tasks.
And for that, you have a specialized operator, which is the approval operator, where you can accept
or deny what the AI generated.
So let's see how it works.
Okay, so if you go on the airflow UI and look at the recipe classification Dag, we have the following
tasks.
So the first task get recipe returns a recipe that classifies, recipe classifies.
And we classify that recipe using lm that then chooses between intermediate, advanced or beginner.
However, we don't want to fully trust what the LM produces.
So we want to make sure that the classification is correct.
So the question is how can we turn those tasks into approval operator tasks.
Well let's see how to do it.
Back to your code editor.
Open recipe classification.
And then the first step to use the approval operator is to import it.
So for that from airflow dot providers, dot dot dot operators.
And then you import the approval operator.
If we take a look at the code source of the approval operator, you can see that it inherits from the
human in the loop operator, which means you have access to some parameters such as subject, body,
and so on.
But the approval operator is a specialized version of the human in the loop operator, in the sense
that you have only two options approve or reject, and you cannot change those options.
So either you approve or reject whatever the AI generated.
And if you take a look at the parameters that are specific to this operator, you have two parameters.
Ignore downstream trigger rules, which is set to false by default and failed on reject, which is set
to false by default.
You can see the default behavior right here.
So if you click on approve downstream tasks execute as normal.
But if you click reject then downstream tasks are skipped according to the ignore downstream trigger
rules setting and also fail on reject is actually discouraged because you don't expect the approval
operator to fail, as you have yourself as a human to approve or reject.
So in theory, the approval operator will never fail.
Okay, so that's it for the approval operator.
Now let's go back to the Dag.
And here we want to implement it for the tasks beginner intermediate and advanced.
Let's start with the beginner task.
So as the approval operator does not have a decorator we have to use the class.
So let's do it.
Here we create a new variable beginner equals to the approval operator.
Then the task ID is beginner.
We have to define a subject with the following value.
So beginner recipe.
And then we pull the name of the recipe from the task get recipe.
So if you take a look at the task we have this dictionary corresponding to the recipe.
And we are fetching this name.
Okay.
Once we have that, we define a body and the body is a quite long one, so feel free to copy and paste
it from the code under that video on Udemy.
But this is the body.
So you can see here we have the recipe classification review.
And then we fetch the recipe name.
We fetch the cuisine as well as the preparation time and the description of the recipe.
And finally, please review and approve this beginner level recipe.
Keep in mind we are fetching all the values we need from the recipe by using Xcom pull with the task
get recipe because get recipe returns the recipe.
And so all the values that we want to display in the approval operator.
And once you have the body, you are done with the approval operator.
That's all you need to specify a task ID, a subject, and a body.
Now, as a quick exercise for you, try to do the same for the intermediate task and the advanced task.
So pause the video right now and I'll see you for the solution.
All right.
Here is the solution I think it was pretty simple because you just had to copy what you did for the
beginner task and paste it for intermediate and advanced.
You had to change beginner to intermediate or advanced and that's it.
Okay.
So now you have three approval operator tasks one for beginner, one for intermediate and one for advanced.
Just don't forget to remove the parenthesis right here, because you are using a classic operator and
not a decorator anymore.
So you have to remove that.
Like that.
And one improvement we can quickly make is that the body is the same for every task.
So let's put the body out of the operator and create a string at the top of the Dag file.
So let's say body for approval equals to this string.
And then we can just reuse body for approval in the different operators.
So here and then here and then here as well.
By the way it would be even better to put this constant because it is a constant outside of the Dag
and have a file in the include folder called constant.
And then you import that body from the constant file, so feel free to do it if you want, but that
will be better than just having a constant like that in the Dag file.
Also, make sure that you remove the indentations right here and also remove the advanced level recipe.
You just want please review and approve this level recipe because we use the body for the different
levels.
So now we have that in the terminal type astro dev restart or docker compose down and docker compose
up D in order to verify if what we did works or not.
If you did not make any mistake, you should be able to see your Dag recipe classification.
So click on it and if you carefully take a look.
Now we have the three tasks intermediate, advanced and beginner that use the approval operator.
So let's trigger the Dag to see what happens okay so we have one Dag run.
We are fetching the recipe now.
The recipe is being classified by the LM, so let's wait a little bit.
And as you can see, the LM decided that this recipe is for intermediate users and the advanced and
beginner tasks have been skipped.
However, you can see the state differed.
What does that mean?
Well, whenever you see a task deferred, that means the task is not using a worker slot while waiting
for your input.
If you don't know about deferrable operators, I highly recommend you to look at the documentation.
It's a bit more advanced, but they are very useful and efficient if you use sensors a lot.
That being said, you see on the right you have a tab required action with one, which means you have
one required action.
And this tab is for the human in the loop operators.
So click on it and you can see one action one required action.
So click right here.
And you can see the form that we specified in the body.
So you have the name of the recipe for the subject and then the recipe again, the cuisine, the preparation
time and the description of the recipe.
And please review and approve this recipe.
So the question is, do you approve or reject the fact that this recipe is for intermediate --?
Well, let's say we approve.
In that case, you click approve.
And just like that, you don't have any required action anymore and the task successfully completes.
So that's the idea of the approval operator is that it waits until you give your input, until you validate
the output of your LM.
And then you can imagine that downstream to the intermediate task, you have other tasks to process,
the intermediate recipe.
That's it.
About the approval operator.
As you can see, it's a very simple one to use, but a powerful one to check the output of your AI workflows.
