

=== Before your begin ===


--- Course Introduction ---

Are you preparing for Databricks Spark certification?
Or, you might be preparing for Spark Job Interviews.
Or you are looking for a place where you can ask for more advanced topics.
You are at the right place.
I designed this course with the following objectives.
This course is not for beginners.
So if you are a beginner and want to learn from scratch,
you should take my Spark Programming in Python for Beginners course.
But in this course, you will learn some advanced Spark skills
that I have already collected as feedback from various students and professionals.
This course also covers some advanced topics and concepts
that are asked in the Databricks Spark certification exam.
So the Spark Programming in Python for Beginners
and Beyond Basics and Cracking Job Interviews together cover 100% of the Spark certification curriculum.
Many of the concepts covered in this course are part of the Spark job interviews.
So this course will also help you crack the Spark Job interviews.
However, this course is open-ended.
You might have appeared for a Job interview,
got some questions that you couldn't answer,
or maybe you answered it,
but you think you got a good topic
and you want some elaborate explanation and want to see some examples.
Come back to me and send me some details of the question and topic,
and I will try to include them here in this course.
It is also possible that you are working on some project,
and you faced some scenarios which you couldn't solve or fix,
come back here and share them with me.
No matter the source of your information,
come back here, share it with me,
and help me try to extend this course covering more and more details with your inputs.
So join this course, learn what I already have for you,
and send me your inputs of what more you want to learn.
I will try to cover your demands .
and make this course more and more powerful for you and others
Great! Looking forward to seeing you in the course.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.


=== Spark Architecture ===


--- Spark Cluster Runtime Architecture ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I will talk about Apache Spark Runtime Architecture.
So let's start.
Apache Spark is a distributed computing platform.
However, every Spark application is a distributed application in itself.
I will explain that in a minute.
But remember, every Spark application is a distributed application in itself.
Great! A Distributed application runs on a cluster.
So you need a cluster for your Spark application.
You can run it on your local machine for development and unit testing
but ultimately your Spark application runs on a production cluster.
We have two most commonly used cluster technologies for Spark.
Hadoop YARN cluster
Kubernetes Cluster
We have a few more such as Mesos and Spark Standalone cluster
but these two covers more than 90% market share.
Make sense?
Now let's start with the following question.
What is a cluster?
A cluster is a pool of physical computers.
For example, I may have a cluster of 10 machines.
Each machine in this example cluster comes with 16 CPU cores and 64 GB RAM.
They are networked, and we created a cluster of all these ten machines using the Hadoop YARN cluster manager.
The entire pool is termed as a cluster, and individual machines are known as worker nodes.
So I have a cluster of 10 worker nodes.
What is the total capacity of my cluster?
I have ten workers, each with 16 CPU cores and 64 GB RAM.
So my total CPU capacity is 160 CPU cores, and the RAM capacity is 640 GB.
Make sense?
Now I want to run a Spark application on this cluster.
So I will use the spark-submit command and submit my spark application to the cluster.
My request will go to the YARN resource manager.
The YARN RM will create one Application Master container on a worker node
and start my application's main() method in the container.
But what is the container?
A container is an isolated virtual runtime environment.
It comes with some CPU and memory allocation.
For example, let's assume YARN RM gave 4 CPU Cores
and 16 GB memory to this container and started it on a worker node.
The worker node has got 16 CPU cores and 64 GB of memory.
But YARN RM took 4 CPU cores and 16 GB memory and gave it to my container.
Now my application's main() method will run in the container,
and it can use 4 CPU cores and 16 GB memory
Make sense?
Great! Now let's go inside the container and see what happens there.
The container is running the main() method of my application.
Right?
And we have two possibilities here.
PySpark Application
and Scala Application
My main method could be a PySpark application, or it could be a Scala application. Right?
Spark comes in two commonly used flavors.
So let's assume my application is a PySpark application.
But Spark is written in Scala, and it runs in the Java virtual machine.
What does it mean?
Let me explain.
Spark was written in Scala.
Scala is a JVM language, and it always runs in the JVM.
But the Spark developers wanted to bring this to Python developers.
So they created a Java wrapper on top of the Scala code.
And then, they created a Python wrapper on top of the Java wrappers.
And this Python wrapper is known as PySpark.
Make sense?
Great!
So I have Python code in my main() method.
This python code is designed to start a Java main() method internally.
So my PySpark application will start a JVM application.
Once we have a JVM application,
the PySpark wrapper will call the Java Wrapper using the Py4J connection.
What is Py4J?
Py4J allows a Python application to call a Java application.
And that's how PySpark works.
It will always start a JVM application and call Spark APIs in the JVM.
The actual Spark application is always a Scala application running in the JVM.
But PySpark is calling Java Wrapper using Py4J,
and the Java Wrapper runs Scala code in the JVM.
Make sense?
Great!
What do we call these two things?
The PySpark main method is my PySpark Driver.
And the JVM application here is my Application Driver.
These two terms are critical to remember.
So your Spark application driver is the main method of your application.
If you wrote a PySpark application,
you would have a PySpark driver and an application driver.
But if you wrote it in Scala,
you won't have a PySpark driver, but you will always have an application Driver.
Make sense?
Great!
In the lecture earlier,
I told you that your Spark application is a distributed application in itself.
Right?
So what did I mean?
Let me explain.
Your application driver distributes the work to others.
So the driver does not perform any data processing work.
Instead, it will create some executors and get the work done from them.
But how does it happens?
After starting, the driver will go back to the YARN RM and ask for some more containers.
The RM will create some more containers on worker nodes and give them to the driver.
So let's assume we got four new containers.
And let's assume each container comes with 4 CPU Cores and 16 GB of memory.
Now the driver will start spark executor in these containers.
Each container will run one Spark executor, and the Spark executor is a JVM application.
So your driver is a JVM application, and your executor is also a JVM application.
These executors are responsible for doing all the data processing work.
The driver will assign work to the executors, monitor them,
and manage the overall application, but the executors do all the data processing.
Make sense?
Great!
So let's quickly revise some terminologies.
You have a container that runs the driver.
This container is also known as Application Master or AM Container.
The AM container runs a Spark driver.
If you submitted the PySpark code, you would have a PySpark driver,
and you will also have a JVM driver.
These two will communicate using Py4J.
If you started a Scala or a Java application,
you would have a JVM driver only.
The driver will start first,
and then it will request the Cluster RM for more containers.
On receiving new containers, the driver will start executors in these new containers.
We call them executor containers.
The AM container, as well as the executor containers, will run on the worker nodes.
Your worker node may have a physical CPU and Memory.
But your driver and executor can use the CPU and Memory given to the container.
They cannot use extra CPU or Memory from the Workers.
Make sense?
Great!
One last thing.
If you are using Spark Dataframe API in Scala or Java, your runtime architecture looks like this.
You will have one JVM driver and one or more JVM executors.
If you are using PySpark Dataframe APIs, your runtime architecture looks like this.
You will have one PySpark driver, one JVM driver, and one or more JVM executors.
But if you are also using some additional Python libraries that are not part of the PySpark,
then your runtime architecture looks like this.
Even if you are creating UDFs in Python, your runtime architecture will look like this.
So what is the difference?
You have a Python worker at each executor.
What is a Python Worker, and Why do we need them?
Python worker is a Python runtime environment.
And you need them only if you are using some python specific code or libraries.
PySpark is a wrapper on Java code.
So as long as you are using only PySpark, you do not need a Python runtime environment.
All the PySpark code is translated into Java code, and it runs in the JVM.
But if you are using some Python libraries which doesn't have a Java wrapper,
you will need a Python runtime environment to run them.
So the executors will create a Python runtime environment so they can execute your Python code.
I will talk more about this in a later video.
But for now, let's remember that you may have Python workers inside the executor container
for running custom python code outside the PySpark API.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for Spark Cluster.
See you again!
Keep learning and keep growing!

--- Spark Submit and Important Options ---

Welcome back.
In this video, I will talk about spark-submit and some important submit options.
So let's start.
You created your spark application and tested it on your local machine.
You are now ready to deploy your application in a test cluster or maybe in a production cluster.
How will you do that?
We have many ways to submit a Spark application to your cluster.
However,
the most commonly used method is the spark-submit command-line tool
In this video,
I will talk about the spark-submit and the most commonly used spark-submit options.
So let's start with the following question.
What is spark-submit?
The spark-submit is a command-line tool that allows you to submit the Spark application to the cluster.
Here is a general structure of the spark-submit command.
This is a minimalist example with the most commonly used options.
So you can use the spark-submit command
and pass some configuration options using -- in front of the option name.
The second last argument is your application jar or a PySpark script.
Finally, you have a command-line argument for your application.
The example uses only three configurations,
but here is a list of the most commonly used options.
The class option is only valid for Java or Scala,
and it is not required when you submit a PySpark application.
This class option tells the driving class name
where you defined your main() method for java and scala.
The master option is to tell the cluster manager.
If you are using YARN, the value of your master is yarn.
But if you want to run your application on the local machine,
you should set the master to local.
You can also use local[3] to run spark locally with three threads.
The deploy mode takes one of the following two configurations.
client
and cluster
Remember
You have only two deploy modes.
I see people often talking about the local mode.
But the local is a master configuration,
and it is not a valid deploy mode.
I will talk about these two deploy modes in a minute.
But before that, let's quickly cover other options.
The conf option allows you to set additional spark configurations.
For example, you can set spark.executor.memoryOverhead = 0.20 using the --conf.
The default value for spark.executor.memoryOverhead is 0.10.
I will cover overhead memory configuration in a later video.
Now comes the resource allocation options.
Spark application runs as one driver and one or more executors.
Right?
So you can use the driver-cores option to ask for CPU cores for your driver container.
Similarly,
you can ask RAM for the driver container using the driver-memory option.
Then we have three options for executors.
The num-executors is to set the required number of executors.
And the executor-cores and executor-memory are for the CPU and memory of the executor containers.
Let's look at an example.
Here it is.
And here is an equivalent version of the Scala application.
So this example is trying to submit a hello-spark application.
That's my Spark application.
I will submit and run it in my Hadoop YARN cluster,
so the master is yarn.
I want this application to run in cluster mode,
so the deploy-mode is the cluster.
I am requesting YARN RM to allocate a driver container
with 2 CPU cores and 8 GB memory.
So I defined two driver-cores and 8G driver-memory.
I also want the driver to ask YARN RM for four executor containers and start four executors.
So I defined num-executors as four.
Then I wanted to get 2 CPU cores and 16 GB of memory for each executor container.
So I defined executor-cores and executor-memory accordingly.
Make sense?
Great!
So that's how we submit spark applications to the cluster and demand resources.
Make sense?
Great! That's all for this video
See you again
Keep learning and keep growing!!


=== Performance and Applied Understanding ===


--- Deploy Modes - Client and Cluster mode ---

Welcome Back.
We learned about Spark runtime architecture, and I also talked about the spark-submit command.
Now it's time to understand the Spark deploy modes.
So let's start.
The spark-submit allows you to submit the spark application to the cluster.
And you can submit the application to run in one of the two modes.
Cluster Mode
and Client Mode
But what is the difference?
Let's look at the Spark runtime architecture.
Here it is.
Correct?
You are sitting on a client machine, and you submitted the Spark application.
This architecture shows cluster mode architecture.
In the cluster mode,
the spark-submit will reach the YARN RM requesting him to start the driver in an AM container.
YARN will start your driver in the AM container on a worker node in the cluster.
Then the driver will again request YARN to start some executor containers.
So the YARN will start executor containers and handover them to the driver.
Make sense?
Great!
So in the cluster mode, your driver is running in the AM container on a worker node in the cluster.
Your executors are also running in the executor containers on some worker nodes in the cluster.
Make sense?
Great!
I eliminated the notion of the PySpark driver and the Python workers to keep it simple.
However, if you submitted a PySpark application, you will also have a PySpark driver,
and you may also have Python workers.
PySpark driver will also run side by side in the same AM container,
and the Python workers will run in the executor containers.
We already learned that.
Right?
Now let's see what happens if you submit your application in client mode.
Here it is.
In this kind of setup, the spark-submit doesn't go to the YARN resource manager for starting an AM container.
Instead, the spark-submit command will start the driver JVM directly on the client machine.
So, in this case, the spark driver is a JVM application running on your client machine.
This is the same machine where you executed the spark-submit command.
Now the driver will reach out to the YARN resource manager requesting executor containers.
The YARN RM will start executor containers and handover them to the driver.
And that's all.
The driver will start executors in those containers to do the job.
Make sense?
So the cluster mode and client mode have got only one difference.
In cluster mode, your driver runs in the cluster.
In client mode, your driver runs in your client machine.
That is all.
Everything else remains the same.
All the executors will be running on the cluster in both cases.
Make sense?
Great!
But how do we choose the deploy mode?
I mean, when should you submit your application in client mode,
and when should you run it in cluster mode?
Well!
You will almost always submit your application in cluster mode.
It is unlikely that you submit your spark application in client mode.
We have two clear advantages of running your application in cluster mode.
The cluster mode allows you to submit the application and log off from the client machine.
Why?
Because the driver and executors are running on the cluster.
They have nothing active on your client's machine.
So even if you log off from your client machine,
the driver and executor will continue running in the cluster.
Your application runs faster in cluster mode because your driver is closer to the executors.
The driver and executor communicate heavily,
and if they are closer, you don't get impacted by network latency.
Right?
For these simple reasons, you will almost always run your application in cluster mode.
But why do we have client mode?
Well!
The client mode is designed for interactive workloads.
For example, spark-shell runs your code in client mode.
Similarly, Spark notebooks are also using the client mode.
Why?
We have two reasons.
The first reason is the interactive mode.
Spark shell and notebooks give you an interactive method to work with Spark.
You will submit some code using these tools.
They will run the code and show you the results.
Right?
So they use client mode and keep the driver running on the local machine.
When a driver is local, they can easily communicate with the driver,
get the results and show it back to you.
The second reason is to make an exit easy.
What does it mean?
Simple!
What happens if you log off from the client machine or stop the shell and quit.
The driver dies.
Right?
Because it was running locally.
As soon as the driver dies, the YARN RM knows that the driver is dead,
and the executors assigned to the driver are now orphans.
So the RM will terminate the executor containers to free up the resources.
Make sense?
That's why client mode was designed in Spark.
However, you are most likely to use the cluster mode for submitting applications to run in the cluster.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all about the deploy modes.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Spark Jobs - Stage, Shuffle, Task, Slots ---

Welcome Back.
In this lecture, I will talk about Spark Jobs and Stages.
So let's start.
Understanding Spark jobs and stages require you to know about the Spark Dataframe API classification.
So let me revise that quickly.
Most of the Spark APIs can be classified into two categories.
Transformations
and Actions
We also have some functions and objects that are neither transformations nor actions.
However, the majority is grouped in these two categories.
Transformations are used to process and convert data, and they are further classified into two categories.
Narrow Dependency transformations
and Wide Dependency transformations
The narrow dependency transformations can run in parallel
on each data partition without grouping data from multiple partitions.
For example, select(), filter(), withColumn(), drop() etc.
All these transformations can be independently performed on each data partition in parallel.
And you do not need to group data for performing these transformations.
The Wide dependency transformations require some kind of grouping before they can be applied.
For example, groupBy(), join(), cube(), rollup(), and agg().
All these wide dependency transformations require grouping of data on some key
and then apply the transformation.
Make sense?
Great!
Now let's talk about the actions.
As the name suggests, an action triggers some work,
such as writing a Dataframe to disk, computing the transformations, and collecting the results.
Some commonly used actions as read(), write(), collect(), and take() etc.
All spark actions trigger one or more Spark jobs.
And that's a supercritical concept.
Great!
So now that we learned about the transformations and actions
let's take an example code and see how spark runs our code.
Here is a super simple spark application code snippet.
What am I doing here?
I am reading a CSV file and also inferring the schema.
I created an initial data frame and named it surveyRawDF.
Right?
The initial surveyRawDF comes from reading a CSV file and inferring the schema.
Make sense?
Then I am repartitioning the surveyRawDF and creating a new Dataframe.
This new data frame is named partitionedSurveyDF.
Right?
I repartitioned it to make sure that I have two internal data partitions.
And you should also know that the repartition() is a wide dependency transformation.
Correct?
In the following line, I am taking a dataframe of two partitions and applying some transformations.
The first transformation is where() method, and that one is a narrow transformation.
Then I have a select() method, and this guy is also a narrow transformation.
The third one is a groupBy(), and it is a wide dependency transformation.
Right?
Then I have a count() method, and this guy is also a narrow transformation.
And that is all about applying transformations.
I applied four transformations on the partitionedSurveyDF, and the result goes to the countDF.
Make sense?
Then in the last line, I am applying the collect() method on the countDF.
And that's an action.
Correct?
Great!
Now let's talk about this code snippet.
This code snippet has got two spark code blocks.
How do I know I have two blocks?
Well!
That's simple.
Start from the first line and look for action.
Wherever you find action, your first block ends there, and the following line starts a new block.
In this example, my first line itself is an action.
Right?
The read() method is an action.
So the first block starts at the first line, and it also ends at the first line.
The following line starts a new code block.
Then I will keep looking for the action, but I find it only at the last line.
So my second block starts from the second line and ends at the last line.
The point is straight.
This example has got two code blocks.
Why?
Because we have two actions in this example.
Make sense?
Great!
A typical spark application looks like a set of similar code blocks.
This example has got only two blocks, but a large application may have many code blocks.
And spark will run each code block as one spark job.
What does it mean?
Simple!
Each action creates a spark job.
And that's why we keep looking for actions to separate spark code blocks.
I got two spark actions visible here.
So I can assume two Spark jobs here.
Make sense?
Great!
So I hope you understand the notion of Spark Jobs.
It is as simple as each spark action runs as a spark job that contains all the transformations of its code block.
So in this example, let's leave the first block and concentrate on the second code block.
Great!
So here is my code block that terminates with a spark action.
Your application driver will take this block, compile it and create a Spark job.
But this job must be performed by the executors.
Why?
Because the driver doesn't perform any data processing job.
The driver must break this job into smaller tasks and assign them to the executors.
So how that happens?
Let's see how our job looks like.
Here it is.
The job must start with surveyDF and repartition it to create partitionedSurveyDF.
Then it must apply the four transformations to create the countDF.
That's all we want to do as part of this job.
Right?
I ignored the collect action for now, and we will come back to it later.
Great!
So this is what we call the logical query plan of your spark job.
I will talk about query planning in a separate video, but you can get a sense here.
Spark driver will crate a logical query plan for each spark job.
Remember that.
And this example shows how the logical plan looks like.
Once we have the logical plan, the driver will start breaking this plan into stages.
Let's see how that happens.
The driver will look at this plan to find out the wide dependency transformations.
I have two wide dependencies in this plan.
The first one is the repartition() method, and the second one is the groupBy() method.
So the driver will break this plan after each wide dependency.
The first one becomes the first stage.
The second one goes to the second stage.
Finally, the last one is the third stage.
Great!
So here we are.
My logical plan is now broken down into three stages.
Each stage can have one or more narrow transformations,
and the last operation of the stage is a wide dependency transformation.
Make sense?
Great!
Spark cannot run these stages in parallel.
We should finish the first stage, and then only we can start the next stage.
Right?
Why?
Because the output of the first stage is an input for the next stage.
Isn't it?
So whatever we see here is one spark job, and it is broken down into three stages.
All the stages can run one after the other because the output of one stage is input for the next stage.
Make sense?
Great!
But how the output of one stage goes to the next stage?
Let's try to understand that tracing it from the first stage.
What am I doing in the first stage?
I am reading surveyDF and repartitioning it to create partitionedSurveyDF.
How many partitions do I have in the surveyDF?
Let's assume I have a single partition.
How many partitions do I have in the partitionedSurveyDF?
Two partitions.
Why?
Because I wrote my code to repartition it and create two partitions.
Right?
So it should look like this.
Isn't it?
Great!
So this entire thing of stage one becomes a task.
And the final output of the stage must be stored in an exchange buffer.
Let's call it to write exchange.
Make sense?
Now the output of one stage becomes the input of the next stage.
Right?
So the next stage starts with the exchange buffer.
Let's call it the read exchange.
Spark is a distributed system.
So the Write exchange and the read exchange may be on two different worker nodes.
Right?
It may be on the same worker, but it can be on two different works.
So we must consider a copy of data partitions from the Write exchange to the read exchange.
And this copy operation is popularly known as the Shuffle/Sort operation.
The shuffle/sort is not a plain copy of data.
A lot of things happen here, but you do not need to worry about all that.
We simply learn that the shuffle/sort will move data from the Write exchange to the read exchange.
That's all.
But do remember some points here.
The stage ends with a wide dependency transformation, and hence it requires a shuffle/sort of the data.
The Shuffle/Sort is an expensive operation in the Spark cluster.
It requires a write exchange buffer and a read exchange buffer.
The data from the write exchange buffer is sent to the read exchange buffer over the network.
Make sense?
Great!
Now let's come to the second stage.
The read exchange has got two partitions.
Why?
Because I created two partitions in the Write exchange of stage one.
Right?
And I also configured spark shuffle partitions to ensure I preserve those two partitions in the read exchange.
So I will have two input partitions here.
And now I can run these transformations in parallel on those two partitions.
So this is how it looks.
Make sense?
Spark can execute the same plan in parallel on two partitions because I have two partitions.
And this is what we call a task.
So I can have two parallel tasks in stage two.
Stage two also ends with a wide dependency transformation.
Right?
So we again need a shuffle/sort operation here.
The connection between stage two and stage three looks like this.
Now let's assume I am still keeping two partitions, so my stage three can also run parallel like this.
Make sense?
And this is how the final execution plan looks like.
So the Spark driver starts with a logical query plan of a job and converts it to a runtime execution plan.
And this is how the runtime execution plan looks for my example spark job.
Make sense?
And it helps you understand the following concepts.
Let's quickly revise all these terms.
Spark creates one job for each action.
This job may contain a series of multiple transformations.
The Spark engine will optimize those transformations and create a logical plan for the job.
Then spark will break the logical plan at the end of every wide dependency and create two or more stages.
If you do not have any wide dependency, your plan will be a single-stage plan.
But if you have N wide-dependencies, your plan should have N+1 stages.
Data from one stage to another stage is shared using the shuffle/sort operation.
Now each stage may be executed as one or more parallel tasks.
The number of tasks in the stage is equal to the number of input partitions.
In our example, the first stage starts with one single partition.
So it can have a maximum of one parallel task.
We made sure two partitions in the second stage.
So we can have two parallel tasks in stage two.
If I create 100 partitions for stage two, I can have 100 parallel tasks for stage two.
Make sense?
Great!
The task is the most critical concept for a Spark job.
We learned all this so we can reach the task level and understand what a task is.
A task is the smallest unit of work in a Spark job.
The Spark driver assigns these tasks to the executors and asks them to do the work.
The executor needs the following things to perform the task.
The task Code
and Data Partition
So the driver is responsible for assigning a task to the executor.
The executor will ask for the code or API to be executed for the task.
It will also ask for the data frame partition on which to execute the given code.
The application driver facilitates both these things to the executor, and the executor performs the task.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all about the job execution plan.
You must understand and remember all these terms and their meaning.
Now let's see how this plan fits into the cluster.
So here is my spark cluster.
I have a driver and four executors.
Each executor will have one JVM process.
Right?
But I assigned 4 CPU cores to each executor.
So, my Executor-JVM can create four parallel threads.
Isn't it?
And that's the slot capacity of my executor.
It looks like this.
So each executor can have four parallel threads, and we call them executor slots.
The drive knows how many slots do we have at each executor.
And he is going to assign tasks to fit in the executor slots.
So for this configuration, let's assume the driver has a job stage to finish.
And you have ten input partitions for the stage.
So you can have ten parallel tasks for the same.
Right?
Now the driver will assign those ten tasks in these slots.
It might look like this.
All the green slots are filled.
This assignment may not be as uniform as I showed here.
But let's assume it is as shown here.
But we have some extra capacity that we are wasting because we do not have enough tasks for this stage.
Make sense?
Great!
Now let's assume this stage is complete.
All slots are now free.
Now the driver should start the next stage.
And we have 32 tasks for the next stage.
But we have 16 slots only.
Right?
That's not a problem.
The driver will schedule 16 tasks in the available slots.
The remaining 16 will wait for slots to become available again.
Make sense?
Great!
That's how these tasks are assigned and run by the executor.
However, we didn't talk about our actions.
Right?
This example had a collect() action in the end.
The collect() action requires each task to send data back to the driver.
So the tasks of the last stage will send the result back to the driver over the network.
The driver will collect data from all the tasks and present it to you.
In my example, I wanted to flush the result into the log so the driver will do the same.
If you had an action to write the result in a data file, in that case,
all the tasks will write a data file partition and send the partition details to the driver.
The driver considers the job done when all the tasks are successful.
If any task fails, the driver might want to retry it.
So it can restart the task at a different executor.
If all retries also fail, then the driver returns an exception and marks the job failed.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Spark SQL Engine and Query Planning ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I am going to talk about the Spark SQL Engine and Query Planning.
So let's start.
Apache Spark gives you two prominent interfaces to work with data.
Spark SQL
and Dataframe API
Spark SQL is compliant with ANSI SQL:2003 standard.
So you can think of it as standard SQL.
Right?
Dataframes are function APIs,
and they allow you to implement functional programming techniques to process your data.
Other than these two, you also have Dataset API available only for Scala and Java.
The Dataframe API internally uses Dataset APIs, but these Dataset APIs are not available in PySpark.
If you are using Scala or Java, you can directly use Dataset APIs.
But Spark recommends using Dataframe APIs and avoid using Dataset.
You can do almost everything using Dataframes
and might not even see a requirement that forces you to use datasets.
The spark certification exam is available in Scala and Python both.
But they avoid asking about the features that are different in Scala and Python.
For example, the Dataset is not available in PySpark,
so they do not ask anything about it in the certification exam.
So you can safely ignore it and let me remove the Dataset from the equation for brevity.
So you can write spark code using Dataframe APIs, or you can write SQL expressions.
Right?
Spark looks at your code in terms of jobs.
We learned about the Jobs in the earlier video.
Right?
So if you have a Dataframe API code, Spark will take action
and all its preceding transformations to consider it a single Job.
Similarly, if you write a SQL expression, Spark considers one SQL expression as one Job.
The point is straight.
Spark code is nothing but a sequence of Spark Jobs.
And each Spark Job represents a logical query plan.
This first logical plan is a user-created logical query plan.
Correct.
Now this plan goes to Spark SQL engine.
Remember!
You may have Dataframe APIs, or you may have SQL.
Both will go to the Spark SQL engine.
For Spark, they are nothing but a Spark Job represented as a logical plan.
Make sense?
Great!
The Spark SQL Engine will process your logical plan in four stages.
The Analysis stage will parse your code for errors and incorrect names.
For example, let's assume your code represents the following SQL.
Spark doesn't know if the column is a valid column name and the data type of this column.
What it is?
So the Spark SQL engine will look into the Catalog to resolve the column name and its data type.
For example, assume you have a SQL like this.
Then Spark SQL engine might also apply an implicit type casting to the product_qty
to perform and validate the addition operation.
The point is straight.
The Analysis phase will parse your code and create a fully resolved logical plan.
You might see an Analysis exception if the column names do not resolve
or have some incorrect typecasting, or you used an invalid function name, etc
If your code passed the Analysis phase, that means you have a valid code,
and you are not using something that Spark doesn't know or cannot resolve.
The next stage is logical optimization.
The logical optimization phase applies standard rule-based optimizations to the logical plan.
Here are some examples of logical optimization.
You may not need to learn and understand the meaning and purpose of these logical optimizations for the exam.
And the list of such logical optimizations is long and they keep evolving.
We do not care what do they include here.
All we want to learn is they apply some logical optimizations to our code
and create an optimized logical plan.
Then this optimized logical plan goes into the next phase of physical planning.
Spark SQL takes a logical plan and generates one or more physical plans in the physical planning phase.
Physical planning applies cost-based optimization.
So the engine will create multiple plans, calculate each plan's cost, and finally select the plan with the least cost.
At this stage, they mostly use different join algorithms to create more than one physical plan.
For example, they might create one plan using broadcast join and another using Sort merge,
and one more using shuffle hash join.
Then they apply a cost to each plan and choose the best one.
Make sense?
Great!
The last stage is code generation.
So your best physical plan goes into code generation,
and the engine will generate Java byte code for the RDD operations in the physical plan.
And that's why Spark is also said to act as a compiler
because it uses state-of-the-art compiler technology for code generation to speed up execution.
And that's pretty much all about the Spark SQL Engine.
You might see a variety of questions from this section,
and we will explore more about this topic while we practice questions.
Make sense?
Great!
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Lets Practice - Quiz 1 Solution Video ---

Welcome Back.
So you practiced one set of Spark Architecture questions.
Let's look at those questions in detail.
I will go through each question and evaluate all the options.
We will select the correct answer and also understand why other options are incorrect.
In between, I will try to recall your knowledge about Spark Architecture.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's start with the first question.
Which of the following statements about the Spark driver is incorrect?
So they are talking about the Spark driver.
Right?
We already know the Spark application runs as one driver and a bunch of executors.
The Spark driver runs the main() method of the application
and creates Spark Session, which internally creates the SparkContext.
And this question wants you to identify an incorrect statement about the driver.
Let's look at the first option.
The Spark driver is the node in which the Spark application's main method runs to coordinate the Spark application.
That looks like a correct statement.
Why?
Because Spark driver is the application's main method,
it runs at only one node in the Spark cluster and coordinates the work across all executors.
And we have all the keywords in this answer.
The answer talks about the node running the main method and coordinating the application.
Right?
Great!
Let's look at the second option.
The Spark driver is horizontally scaled to increase overall processing throughput.
That's not correct.
Why?
Because we can have only one Spark driver for one Spark application, it does not scale horizontally.
We will always have only one driver and one or more executors.
So we found our answer.
Let me mark this one.
However, I also want to scan other options to be double sure.
Let's look at the third option.
The Spark driver contains the SparkContext object.
That's a correct statement.
We create a Spark Session in our main method, and that always remains in the main method.
Spark session is the entry point of a Spark application.
But they are talking about Spark Context, not Spark session.
Right?
So Spark session internally contains the Spark Context.
What is the main purpose of the Spark Context?
It represents the connection to a Spark cluster,
and we can have only one active SparkContext at a time.
Right?
Great!
Let's look at the next option.
The Spark driver is responsible for scheduling the execution of data by various worker nodes in cluster mode.
That's also a correct statement.
One of the main jobs of the Spark driver is to schedule the executors on the worker nodes
and monitor them while they are running.
If an executor fails, the Spark driver will go into a retry loop
by restarting a new executor on some worker node, and the new executor will restart the execution.
Make sense?
Now let's look at the last option.
The Spark driver should be as close as possible to worker nodes for optimal performance.
Great!
That's an interesting question.
We talked about it while discussing client mode and cluster mode.
Right?
The driver and executors communicate heavily, and they also exchange data in some cases.
So If your driver is running inside the cluster close to the executors,
you will get better network bandwidth and better performance.
Make sense?
Great!
So we are done with the first question.
Let's look at the second question.
Which of the following describes nodes in cluster-mode Spark?
Great!
So they are talking about two things here.
Nodes
and Cluster mode
And they want us to find the statement that correctly describes the node in cluster-mode.
Let's read the first option.
Nodes are the most granular level of execution in the Spark execution hierarchy.
That's not correct.
We know the Spark application has got two hierarchies.
The first one is like this.
Driver
Worker
and then Executor
And the second hierarchy is like this.
Job
Stages
and Tasks
If you say the most granular level of execution, then you must be talking about the task.
So this statement does not look correct to me.
Let's look at the second option.
There is only one node, and it hosts both the driver and executors.
Well, that could be true if you are running Spark in a cluster having only one worker.
But that's very unlikely.
So I doubt if this could be the best answer.
Let me skip this option assuming it to be incorrect.
Now let's look at the next option.
Nodes are another term for executors, so they are processing engine instances for performing computations.
That's incorrect.
I already talked about the Spark hierarchies.
A node or a worker node is a machine where Spark will run one driver and many executors.
They are not the same as executors, and they are not the processing engine for performing computations.
Let's look at the next one.
There are driver nodes and worker nodes, both of which can scale horizontally.
That's incorrect.
When we talk about Nodes, we are always referring to machines.
They will never scale.
And they are referring to the driver node in the question.
That's another indication of a wrong statement because Spark driver is always one, and it doesn't scale.
Let's read the last one.
Worker nodes are machines that host the executors responsible for the execution of tasks.
That's a perfect statement.
Worker nodes are machines, and they host the executors.
The executors are responsible for performing the task.
So this one is the correct statement.
Great!
Let's move on to the third question.
Which of the following statements about slots is true?
That's an interesting question.
The term slot is always confusing and not very often used amongst Spark learners.
But whenever they say a slot, you should immediately think about the executor CPU cores or executor threads.
I have discussed this in the video.
Right?
Great!
So they want us to identify the correct statement about slots.
Let me read the first one.
There must be more slots than executors.
Well.
We do not have such rules.
You can have ten executors with one CPU core per executor.
So each executor will have one slot.
And that's perfectly fine.
Spark doesn't complain.
The point is straight.
We can have slots >= executors.
So this statement is wrong.
What is next?
There must be more tasks than slots.
Well, that's also not a rule.
You can have a hundred tasks and only ten slots.
In this case, some tasks will wait for slot availability.
You can also have ten tasks and hundred slots.
In that case, you will waste your capacity, and ninety slots will remain vacant.
What is next?
Slots are the most granular level of execution in the Spark execution hierarchy.
That looks correct answer because the slots are the smallest units.
I can mark it as correct.
But I am a little skeptical because Spark always talks about jobs, stages, and tasks.
So the task is the most granular level of execution.
The slot is more of a computation resource.
Right?
So let's see if I find a better answer.
Slots are not used in cluster mode.
That's nonsense.
Slots are threads, and they are used to run tasks in the local mode, client mode, and cluster mode.
They have nothing to do with the execution modes.
What is next?
Slots are resources for parallelization within a Spark application.
This one is also correct.
Slots are actually resources to run the task.
So I have two answers that appear to be correct.
But which one is the best answer.
I think the last one describes it best.
I was already skeptical about the third option.
So I will go with the last option.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's look at the next question.
Which of the following is a combination of a block of data
and a set of transformers that will run on a single executor?
So what are they asking?
They are looking for a combination of data and transformations that can run on a single executor.
And that is what we call a Task.
Isn't it.
A task is a unit of work that will be sent to one executor.
It contains a series of transformations and required data partition.
Right?
So do we have an option here?
Yes!
We have the task in the options, and that should be the correct answer.
Let's look at the other options.
We have Executor, Node, Job, and Slot.
None of these match the definition.
So the task is the correct answer.
Let's move on to the next question.
Which of the following is a group of tasks
that can be executed in parallel to compute the same set of operations on potentially multiple machines?
If you recall the definition of a stage, you can easily make out the answer.
Right?
We know that every spark action triggers a Job.
Then the Job is broken down into stages.
And each stage is further broken down into parallel tasks depending upon the number of input data partitions.
So If we have 50 data partitions, we can run the stage in 50 parallel tasks.
Right?
And that's what they are asking.
The question says a group of tasks that can be executed in parallel.
So the correct answer is a stage.
And we have an option here.
Make sense?
Now let's move on to the next question.
Spark has a few different execution/deployment modes: cluster and client.
Which of the following describes Spark's execution/deployment mode?
Great!
We know Spark offers three deployment modes - cluster mode and client mode.
They want us to read the statement and choose the correct one.
Let's read the first one.
Spark's execution/deployment mode determines
where the driver and executors are physically located when a Spark application is run.
That looks perfectly correct.
Right?
The cluster mode will run driver and executor both in the spark cluster.
The client mode will run the driver in the local machine, and the executors will run in the cluster.
It looks like I found my correct answer.
Let me quickly go through the other statements.
Spark's execution/deployment mode determines which tasks are allocated to which executors in a cluster
That's rubbish.
We do not have any control over task allocation.
Spark driver automatically manages that.
Spark's execution/deployment mode determines
which node in a cluster of nodes is responsible for running the driver program
That's again incorrect.
We do not have control over the node allocation.
The resource manager automatically manages that.
Spark's execution/deployment mode determines
exactly how many nodes the driver will connect to when a Spark application is run
This one is also not correct.
We can configure the number of executors that we want.
But we cannot control the number of nodes.
Spark's execution/deployment mode determines
whether results are run interactively in a notebook environment or batch
That's confusing.
We use CLI and Notebooks for running Spark interactively.
But we do not specify the client mode explicitly for running the CLI or notebook.
These tools internally set the mode.
And yes, the notebook uses client mode for interactive work and cluster mode for batch running
if we submit the entire notebook.
But we do not set the mode explicitly.
So this statement is a little confusing, but I already found one a clean and correct statement.
So I will not go with option five.
And instead, I will prefer marking the first option.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's move on to the next one.
Which of the following cluster configurations will ensure
the completion of a Spark application in light of a worker node failure?
Great!
That's an excellent question.
In the first scenario, we have only one executor.
We gave 100 GB executor memory and 200 CPU cores.
So we have a lot of capacity here.
We have 200 cores.
That means we will get at least 200 slots, and we can run 200 parallel tasks.
Right?
But we have a single executor on a single worker node.
Is that a problem?
What happens if the worker node fails?
That shouldn't be a problem.
The cluster manager will detect it and assign us a new worker node.
That's why we have a cluster manager, and they are fault-tolerant.
So we will get a new worker node and a new executor, and the driver will restart the task on the executor.
So I do not see a problem in completing the Job even if the worker node fails.
The first scenario is a little hypothetical
because we do not prefer to run our spark applications on a single executor with a huge capacity.
Why?
Simple!
If the worker node fails, everything will start again.
The worker is fault-tolerant.
So the Job will finish, but it will take a longer time in case of failure.
The other scenarios are more realistic, and they are running with multiple worker nodes.
So they are anyway fine and will ensure the Job succeeds.
So option 2 is the correct answer
They should all ensure completion because worker nodes are fault-tolerant.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's move next.
At which stage Spark catalyst optimizer applies rule-based optimization.
This one is easy.
Right?
We know Spark application code goes through these four stages.
The Analysis is all about parsing your code and resolving names from the catalog.
The logical optimization is for applying for all the rule-based optimization work.
The outcome of a logical plan is an optimized logical plan?
The physical plan converts what we want to do into how to do it.
So the physical plan takes decisions such as what type of join should be performed.
Should we do a sort-merge join or a broadcast join?
So the Physical plan applies cost-based optimization.
The physical plan also translates Dataframe operation into RDD operations
because everything in Spark is an RDD operation.
Finally, the code generation step will create bytecode for different stages.
This question is asking a straightforward question.
Where rule-based optimization applies, and the answer is Logical Planning.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's go on to the next question.
Which statement is correct for Cluster Manager
Let's read out the options.
Allocates resources and keeps track of resources across applications.
That looks correct to me.
I mean, we may have multiple Spark applications submitted to a single cluster.
And it is the cluster manager that allocates resources to the Spark application.
The driver will request resources for starting executors, but the cluster manager does the resource allocation.
Right?
So this one looks correct.
Communicates back the state of an executor to the driver.
Well!
Executors will directly communicate with the driver.
The Cluster manager doesn't have any role here.
So this one is an incorrect statement.
Runs the application code in parallel
That's not the Job of the cluster manager.
A cluster manager is responsible for managing the cluster and allocating resources.
That is all.
So this option is also incorrect.
Schedules the executors to run in parallel
That's a little confusing.
The cluster manager allocates resources for the executor and gives them to the driver.
Then it is the driver's responsibility to schedule the executors and monitor them.
So this one is also incorrect.
Great!
Let's look at the last question.
You are running two spark applications A1 and A2, in your spark cluster in cluster mode.
Select the correct statement.
Okay.
Let's go through the options.
Spark master will run the driver process for A1 and A2
What is spark master?
I never heard this term.
And they are saying Spark master will run the driver process.
That's not correct,Right?
So I will mark it as incorrect.
Spark will create one driver and two executors to run A1 and A2
Well!
That doesn't make good sense to me.
We have two applications A1 and A2.
So we must have two drivers.
Right?
So this is also incorrect.
A1 and A2 will have their own set of drivers and executors
That one looks like a correct statement.
The statement is not too elaborate, but it sounds correct.
We have two applications A1 and A2, and they will have their own driver and a set of executors.
That makes sense to me.
So let me mark it as correct, and then we will see the last option.
A1 and A2 will share a single driver, but they will have separate executors
That's rubbish.
Each spark application will have its own driver process.
They never share the driver.
Great!
So we are done with all the questions.
Did you notice the approach for taking up the answers?
I have been using one of the following approaches.
Direct Answer
and Elimination
The first approach will read the question and try to jump on the correct answer directly.
For example, look at the following question.
I read the question and immediately know the answer.
They are talking about the stage.
Right?
So I look for the expected answer in the options and mark it as correct.
That's the direct answer approach.
You read the question, and you know the answer.
I prefer this approach whenever possible.
Especially architecture-based questions
and other conceptual questions can be done using this direct answer approach.
But even if I take the direct answer approach, I quickly evaluate other options also.
And make sure I am not making a mistake.
The second approach is the elimination method.
So we go option-by-option and try to eliminate it as a wrong answer.
If we cannot eliminate it, mark it as a correct answer.
But make sure you go over all options and eliminate all of them except one.
If you have two potentially correct answers, choose the best one.
Make sense?
Great!
I hope you enjoyed this question set and also learned or revised few concepts.
See you again in the next set.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Lets Practice - Quiz 2  Solution Video ---

Welcome Back
Let's look at the next set of practice questions in detail
I will go through each question and evaluate all the options
Let' start with the first question
Choose the incorrect statement
Well,
That's a question to choose the incorrect statement
Spark engine starts new stage after the shuffle operation
That looks correct.
Spark job will run one stage, perform shuffle, then start the next stage.
That's how it works
Right?
The spark.sql.shuffle.partitions default value is 200
That's also correct
However, this question might be Spark version-specific.
The default value of this configuration is 200 for Spark 3.0
It might change for a higher version.
So you must refer to the documentation for your Spark version.
Right?
A shuffle represents a physical repartitioning of the data
That's a deep statement.
So what happens in a shuffle operation?
The shuffle operation creates new partitions based on the grouping key,
which are sent to the executors for running the next stage.
So the data physically moves from one executor to another executor.
And that's what they are talking about
So this statement is also correct.
Avoiding shuffle can combine multiple Spark Jobs into one Job
Well!
If we can avoid a shuffle,
then Spark will merge two stages into one single stage.
But they are talking about merging Spark Jobs.
That never happens.
Spark will trigger at least one Job for each action
You can reduce the number of jobs by reducing the number of actions.
But reducing the shuffle will not merge the jobs.
It will merge the stages.
Make sense?
Great!
We found our answer.
Let's move to the next question.
Which of the following describes a stage best
Okay
Let's see the options.
A set of works launched for an application on a worker node to run tasks in parallel.
It looks like a confusing statement.
They are talking about a set of works to run tasks in parallel.
I cannot relate to workers with stages.
So this option doesn't look correct to me
because they do not describe a stage.
A unit of work that can be assigned to one executor
No.
A unit of work that goes to an executor is known as a task.
Right?
So this one is also not describing a stage.
Consists of one driver process
and a set of executor processes to run tasks in parallel
This statement represents the Spark application,
not a stage.
A unit for work which is executed as a set of tasks in parallel without a shuffle
That's what a stage means.
A stage is a set of parallel tasks without shuffle.
The shuffle separates two stages.
Right?
So we got our answer.
Great!
Let's go to the next question.
Which statement is correct for Cluster Manager
This one should be easy.
Let me read the first statement.
Allocates resources and keeps track of resources across applications.
Good.
That's what the cluster manager or the cluster resource manager will do.
I think I got the correct answer.
But let me quickly scan other options.
Communicates back the state of an executor to the driver.
No.
the Cluster manager has nothing to do with driver and executor communication.
The driver and executor directly communicate
without needing any help from the cluster manager.
Runs the application code in parallel
That's not correct.
The cluster manager does not run the code.
Schedules the executors to run in parallel
This one is also not correct.
The cluster manager only allocates the executor container on the worker node.
Executor scheduling is done by the driver.
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following correctly defines Spark performance advantages over Hadoop?
Great
Spark is a successor of Hadoop Map/Reduce.
And the Spark application performs much better than the Hadoop Map/Reduce application.
That's what they are asking here.
Let me see the options.
Spark performs better by storing data in the RDD format,
whereas Hadoop can only use files.
Well!
The reason for Spark performance is not the RDD.
Spark performs better than Map/Reduce because
Spark is an in-memory computation engine.
Spark buffers data in the memory and manages memory more efficiently.
The Hadoop Map/Reduce heavily depends on the disk I/O compared to Spark.
So I will be looking for an option that talks about Spark as an in-memory system
and Hadoop as a disk I/O dependent system.
Let's see the next option.
Spark performs better because it can be deployed on Kubernetes, whereas Hadoop works only on YARN.
I don't think that is a valid reason for performance.
Spark achieves good performance by storing data and computation in memory,
whereas
Hadoop requires more disk I/O operations.
Great!
This is what I have been looking for.
This statement correctly describes the reason for Spark performance over Hadoop Map/Reduce.
But let me read other options also.
​Spark performs better by storing data in the custom format,
whereas Hadoop HDFS file formats.
No. That's not correct.
​Spark achieves performance gains using DataFrames API,
but Hadoop doesn't support Dataframe.
This is also not correct for the performance point.
We already got our correct answer.
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following statements about executors is correct?
Let's see the options.
Slot is a synonym for an executor.
No.
Slots are created inside the executors.
Right?
​You must have fewer executors than tasks.
Well! You can have it, but it is not a must.
Right?
​An executor runs on a single CPU core.
Okay!
So an executor can have one core,
or it can have more than one core.
So I don't think it is a correct statement.
You must have more slots in the executors than tasks.
No. That's rubbish.
Let's see the following options.
Tasks run in parallel in executor slots.
Perfect!
It's a short but perfectly correct statement.
Right?
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following correctly describes a shuffle?
Great!
It should be an easy question.
Let's see the options.
A shuffle is executed during a broadcast join.
That's not correct.
The broadcast join is a technique to eliminate the need for a shuffle.
Spark applies the broadcast join when one table is tiny,
and the other table is comparatively large.
In this case, Spark will broadcast the smaller table
to all executors and avoid the shuffle operation.
Make sense.
So this statement is incorrect.
A shuffle operation is used to send data to the executors.
This is also not correct.
The shuffle operation is used to physically repartition the data
and send it from the read exchange to the write exchange.
Shuffle doesn't send data to executors.
A shuffle operation is a result of wide dependency transformation.
That's correct.
We learned about it.
Right?
You are likely to see a shuffle operation in your execution plan
whenever you have a wide dependency.
A shuffle results from DataFrame.coalesce().
That's not correct.
Dataframe coalesce() is a narrow dependency transformation.
So it does not cause a shuffle.
A shuffle combines multiple partitions.
It looks like a correct statement, but it is not.
The shuffle is a repartition operation.
So it doesn't combine data.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's see the next question.
Which of the following statement is correct about the Spark execution plan?
Great!
Let's see the options.
Spark catalog is used to resolve the optimized logical plan.
Well! This is incorrect.
The Catalog is used to resolve the column names and data types,
and it is used during the Analysis phase.
An optimized logical plan is created during the logical planning phase,
which is performed analysis phase.
Right?
Let's see the next option.
Spark catalog is used to compute the cost of execution.
No.
Catalog has nothing to do with cost optimization.
We learned that.
Right?
The physical plan depends on cost optimization.
Correct.
Spark will create multiple physical plans,
apply a cost to each plan and then take one physical plan with the least cost.
So the physical plan is all about cost optimization.
We found our correct answer.
But let's see other options quickly.
The physical plan will differ for DataFrame API and SQL,
even if both represent the same operation.
That's not correct.
Spark SQL engine applies to DataFrame API and Spark SQL in the same way.
If they represent the same operations,
the execution plan will be the same.
Right?
So this statement is incorrect.
The code generation is performed before the cost optimization.
That's incorrect.
Code optimization is the last step of query planning.
Great!
Let's see the next question.
Which of the following describes a characteristic of the Spark driver?
Great!
Another driver-executor question.
Let's see the options.
The Spark driver collects the DAG information from the worker nodes.
That's rubbish.
The DAG is a representation of the spark execution plan.
And the driver knows the execution plan
as well as the DAG from the beginning.
You can configure the Spark driver to scale horizontally.
No.
The Spark driver cannot scale.
Every Spark application can have one and only one driver.
So this statement is incorrect.
The Spark driver partitions the data to achieve parallel processing from executors.
No.
The driver has nothing to do with the data partitioning.
So this is also incorrect.
The Spark driver automatically creates the SparkSession.
No.
You must write code to create a spark session.
Some tools such as spark-shell or Spark notebooks will internally create spark session.
But the driver cannot automatically create a spark session.
The Spark driver is responsible for scheduling tasks on executors.
That's correct.
Spark driver is responsible for the scheduling of the executors
as well as the task on those executors.
Great!
Let' go to the next question.
Which of the following statements about the DAG is correct?
Okay!
Let me read the options.
DAG stands for "Distributed Acyclic Graph."
That's incorrect.
The DAG stands for Directed Acyclic Graph.
So this option is incorrect.
Spark developers cannot see the DAG of the Spark jobs
because Spark wants to hide internal details for simplicity.
No
You can see the DAG using the Spark UI.
The Spark UI clearly and nicely shows the DAG to you.
A DAG represents the executor-level mapping of tasks.
What does it mean?
The DAG is a representation of the execution plan.
It does not map anything to executors.
A DAG represents the execution plan of a Spark Job.
That's correct.
This statement is a clear definition of the Spark DAG.
Great!
Let's see the next question.
Which of the following statement correctly describes fault tolerance in Apache Spark?
Good.
This one should be a good question.
​Spark can recover data from the disk of the failed worker.
No.
If the worker failed, we could not recover data from the failed machine.
So this is not correct.
If an executor on a worker node fails,
Spark can recompute the RDD at another executor using the RDD lineage.
Perfect.
This is a correct statement.
Spark fault tolerance is designed using the RDD.
RDD is a resilient distributed dataset.
An RDD also contains the lineage information.
I mean, it tells from where it comes and how it is computed.
So in case of failure, Spark will recreate the RDD
using the lineage information in a different executor.
And that's how fault tolerance works in Apache Spark.
Spark computation is fault-tolerant, but RDDs are not fault-tolerant.
That's incorrect.
RDDs are the first-level defense against the fault.
They can be recomputed at a different executor.
The second level defense is the ability of the driver
to restart the task on a different executor.
The third level defense is the ability of the cluster manager
to assign new worker nodes and executor containers if the existing one fails.
Make sense?
Spark must recompute the DataFrame in case of failure
because DataFrames are mutated during the transformations.
Well!
This statement is incorrect because DataFrames are immutable.
The statement tries to tell that the DataFrame is mutable.
So I will mark it as incorrect.
Spark fault tolerance must be enabled via the Spark.fault-tolerance.enabled property.
That's rubbish.
Spark is a fault tolerant system, and it is not an optional feature.
You do not need to enable it, and you cannot disable it.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Spark Memory Allocation ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I will talk about the memory allocation for Spark driver and Spark executor.
So let's start.
Assume you submitted a spark application in a YARN cluster.
The YARN RM will allocate an application master (AM) container and start the driver JVM in the container.
The driver will start with some memory allocation which you requested.
Do you know how to ask for the driver's memory?
You can ask for the driver memory using two configurations.
spark.driver.memory
and spark.driver.memoryOverhead
So let's assume you asked for the spark.driver.memory = 1GB.
And the default value of spark.driver.memoryOverhead = 0.10
The YARN RM will allocate 1 GB of memory for the driver JVM.
And it will also allocate 10% of your requested memory or 384 MB,
whatever is higher for container overhead.
We asked for 1 GB spark.driver.memory. Right?
So the 10% of 1 GB is 100 MB.
But 100 MB is less than the 384 MB.
So the YARN RM will allocate 384 MB for overhead.
Make sense?
Great! So what is the total memory for the container?
It comes to 1 GB + 384 MB. Right?
But what is the purpose of 384 MB overhead?
The overhead memory is used by the container process or any other non JVM process within the container.
Your Spark driver uses all the JVM heap but nothing from the overhead.
Make sense?
Great! That's all about the driver memory allocation.
Now the driver is started with 1 GB of JVM heap. Right?
So the driver will again request for the executor containers from the YARN.
The YARN RM will allocate a bunch of executor containers.
But how much memory do you get for each executor container?
The total memory allocated to the executor container is the sum of the following.
Overhead Memory, Heap Memory, Off Heap Memory and Pyspark Memory
So a Spark driver will ask for executor container memory using four configurations.
What are those configurations?
Overhead memory is the spark.executor.memoryOverhead.
JVM Heap is the spark.executor.memory.
Off Heap memory comes from spark.memory.offHeap.size.
And the PySpark memory comes from the spark.executor.pyspark.memory.
So the driver will look at all these configurations to calculate your memory requirement and sum it up.
Now let's assume you asked for spark.executor.memory = 8 GB
The default value of spark.executor.memoryOverhead = 10%
Let's assume the other two configurations are not set, and the default value is zero.
So how much memory do you get for your executor container?
You asked spark.executor.memory =  8 GB, so you will get 8 GB for JVM.
Then you asked for spark.executor.memoryOverhead = 10%,
so you will get 800 MB extra for the overhead.
And the total container memory comes to 8800 MB. Right?
So the driver will ask for 8.8 GB containers to the YARN RM.
But do we get an 8.8 GB container?
That depends on your cluster configuration.
The container should run on a worker node in the YARN cluster. Right?
What if the worker node is a 6 GB machine?
YARN cannot allocate an 8 GB container on a 6 GB machine. Right?
Because there is not enough physical memory, before you ask for the driver or executor memory,
you should check with your cluster admin for the maximum allowed value.
If you are using YARN RM, you should look for the following configurations.
yarn.scheduler.maximum-allocation-mb
and yarn.nodemanager.resource.memory-mb
For example, let's assume you are using AWS c4.large instance type to set up your Spark cluster using AWS EMR.
The c4.large instance comes with 3.75 GB RAM.
You launched an EMR cluster using c4.large instances.
The EMR cluster will start with the default value of yarn.scheduler.maximum-allocation-mb  = 1792
That means you cannot ask for a container of higher than 1.792 GB.
That's your physical memory limit for each container. Right?
Even if you ask, you are not going to get it.
Make sense?
Great! Now let's come back to our scenario.
Here it is,
and I am assuming that we have enough physical memory on the worker nodes.
So we learned about the driver and executor memory.
The total physical memory for a driver container comes from the following two configurations.
spark.driver.memory and spark.driver.memoryOverhead
Once allocated, it becomes your physical memory limit for your spark driver.
For example, if you asked for a 4 GB spark.driver.memory,
you will get 4 GB JVM heap and 400 MB off JVM Overhead memory.
Now you have three limits.
Your Spark driver JVM cannot use more than 4 GB.
Your non-JVM workload in the container cannot use more than 400 MB.
And Your container cannot use more than 4.4 GB of memory in total.
If any of these limits are violated, you will see an OOM exception.
Make sense?
Great! Now let me summarize executor memory allocation.
The total physical memory for an executor container comes from the following four configurations.
The default value for the third and fourth configurations are not defined.
So you can consider them zero.
Now let's assume you asked for spark.executor.memory = 8 GB.
So you will get 8 GB for the Spark executor JVM.
You will also get 800 MB for overhead.
The total physical memory of your container is 8.8 GB. Right?
Now you have three limits.
Your executor JVM cannot use more than 8 GB of memory.
Your non JVM processes cannot use more than 800 MB.
And your container has a maximum physical limit of 8.8 GB.
You will see an OOM exception when any of these limits are crossed.
Make sense?
Great! So far, so good.
But you should ask two more questions?
What is the Physical memory limit at the worker node?
What is the PySpark executor memory?
I already talked about the Physical memory limit for your workers.
You should look out for yarn.scheduler.maximum-allocation-mb for the maximum limit.
You cannot get more than the maximum-allocation-mb.
The next question is, how much memory do you get for your PySpark?
Right?
We didn't talk about the PySpark memory yet.
All we are talking about is JVM and non-JVM memory.
You do not need to worry about PySpark memory if you write your Spark application in Java or Scala.
But if you are using PySpark, this question becomes critical. Right?
Let's try to understand.
So for this example, how much memory do you get for PySpark?
The answer might surprise you.
PySpark is not a JVM process.
So you will not get anything from those 8 GBs.
All you have is 800 MB of overhead memory.
Some 300 to 400 MB of this is constantly consumed by the container processes and other internal processes.
So your PySpark will get approximately 400 MB.
So now you have one more limit.
If your PySpark consumes more than what can be accommodated in the overhead, you will see an OOM error.
Make sense?
Great! So if you look from the YARN perspective.
The Spark container memory allocation looks like this.
You have a container, and the container has got some memory.
This total memory is broken into two parts.
Heap memory( driver/executor memory)
Overhead memory (OS Memory)
The heap memory goes to your JVM.
We call it driver memory when you are running a driver in this container.
Similarly, we call it executor memory when the container is running an executor.
Make sense?
The overhead memory is used for a bunch of things.
In fact, the overhead is also used for network buffers.
So you will be using overhead memory as your shuffle exchange or reading partition data from remote storage etc.
The point is straight.
Both the memory portions are critical for your Spark application.
And more than often, lack of enough overhead memory will cost you an OOM exception.
Because the overhead memory is often overlooked, but it is used as your shuffle exchange or network read buffer.
Make sense?
Great! That's all for the driver and executor memory allocations.
In the following lecture, we will deep dive further into the executor memory.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Spark Memory Management ---

Welcome Back.
In the previous video, I talked about container memory allocation.
We learned about the following.
Overhead memory and Executor memory
In this video, We will learn more about executor memory.
So let's start with the following assumption.
You started your application using spark.executor.memory as 8 GB
and spark.executor.cores equal to 4
And you got 8 GB memory and 4 CPU cores.
You will also get default 10% overhead memory. Right?
Great! Let me remove this overhead memory from the equation and try to focus only on the JVM memory.
We want to learn how Spark utilizes JVM heap memory. Right?
Great! The heap memory is further broken down into three parts.
Reserved Memory
Spark Memory Pool
User Memory
So let's assume I got 8 GB for the JVM heap.
This 8 GB is divided into three parts.
Spark will reserve 300 MB for itself.
That's fixed, and the Spark engine itself uses it.
The next part is the Spark executor memory pool.
This one is controlled by the spark.memory.fraction configuration, and the default value is 60%.
So for our example, the spark memory pool translates to 4620 MB.
How?
We got 8 GB or 8000 MB.
Three hundred is gone for Reserved memory. Right?
We are left with 7700 MB. Now you take 60% of this,
and you will get 4620 MB for the Spark memory pool.
What is left?
We still have 3080 MB left, and that one is gone for user memory.
Make sense?
I hope you got the calculation for the memory division.
Let me repeat it.
You can ask for executor memory using Spark.executor.memory configuration.
We asked for 8 GB and got the same for the JVM heap.
Spark will reserve 300 MB, and you are left with 7700 MB.
This remaining memory is again divided into a 60-40 ratio.
The 60% goes to the Spark memory pool, and the remaining goes to the user memory pool.
If you want, you can change this 60-40 ratio using the Spark.memory.fraction configuration.
However, the default value is 60%.
Make sense?
Now let's try to understand these three memory pools.
The reserved pool is gone for the Spark engine itself.
You cannot use it.
The Spark Memory pool is your main executor memory pool which you will use for data frame operations and caching.
The User Memory pool is used for non-dataframe operations.
Here are some examples.
If you created user-defined data structures such as hash maps, Spark would use the user memory pool.
Similarly, spark internal metadata and user-defined functions are stored in the user memory.
All the RDD information and the RDD operations are performed in user memory.
But if you are using DataFrame operations,
they do not use the user memory even if the dataframe is internally translated and compiled into RDD.
You will be using user memory only if you apply RDD operations directly in your code.
Make sense?
Great! So the point is straight.
The Spark memory pool is where all your data frames and dataframe operations live.
You can increase it from 60% to 70% or even more if you are not using UDFs,
custom data structures, and RDD operations.
But you cannot make it zero or reduce it too much because you will need it for metadata and other internal things.
Make sense?
Great! Now let's concentrate on the spark executor memory pool.
So for this example, we started with 8 GB, but we are left with a 4620 MB Spark memory pool.
Right?
So how this memory pool is used?
This memory pool is further broken down into two sub-pools.
Storage memory and Executor memory
The default break up is 50% each,
but you can change it using the spark.memory.storageFraction configuration.
The default value of spark.memory.storageFraction configuration is 50%.
So Spark will reserve 50% of the memory pool for the storage pool,
and the remaining 50% comes to the executor pool.
For our example, we got a 2310 MB storage pool and another 2310 MB executor pool.
Now the next question is this.
What do we do in these two memory pools?
We use the storage pool for caching data frames.
And the Executor pool is to perform dataframe computations.
So if you are joining two data frames, Spark will need to buffer some data for performing the joins. Right?
That buffer is created in the executor pool.
Similarly, if you are aggregating or performing some calculation,
the required buffer memory comes from the executor pool.
So executor pool is short-lived. You will use it for execution
and free it immediately as soon as your execution is complete. Right?
The storage pool is used to cache the data frames.
So if you are using dataframe cache operation, you will be caching the data in the storage pool.
So the storage pool is long-term.
You will cache the dataframe and keep it there as long as the executor is running or you want to un-cache it.
Right?
Great! So we are seeing the memory view of the Spark executor.
But we also have an angle of the CPU Cores. Right?
So let me bring that also into the discussion and talk about the compute-view of the executor.
For this example, I asked for the 4 CPU cores. Right?
So my executor will have four slots, and we can run four parallel tasks in these slots. Right?
But what are these slots?
These slots are threads.
Remember that.
All these slots are threads within the same JVM.
We do not have multiple processes or JVMs here.
We have a single JVM, and all the slots are simply threads in the same JVM.
Make sense?
Great! So I have one executor JVM, 2310 MB storage pool, another 2310 MB executor pool,
and four threads to share these two memory pools.
So what do you think?
How much executor memory will each task get?
Simple! 2310/4 right?
That's static memory management,
and Spark used to assign task memory using this static method before spark 1.6.
But now, they changed it and implemented a unified memory manager.
The unified memory manager tries to implement fair allocation amongst the active tasks.
Let's assume I have only two active tasks.
I have four slots, but I have only two active tasks.
So the unified memory manager can allocate all the available execution memory amongst the two active tasks.
The point is straight.
There is nothing reserved for any task.
The task will demand the execution memory, and the unified memory manager will allocate it from the pool.
If the executor memory pool is fully consumed,
the memory manager can also allocate executor memory
from the storage memory pool as long as we have some free space.
What does it mean?
Simple! We start with a 50-50 boundary between executor memory and storage memory.
But you can change it using Spark.memory.storageFraction.
I know I will not cache too many data frames.
So I can reduce it to 30%.
So I shifted the boundary.
But this boundary is flexible, and we can borrow space as long as we have free space.
So the memory manager can borrow some memory from the other side as long as the other side is free.
Let me show you a scenario.
Let's assume we cached some data frames and entirely consumed the storage memory pool.
But I want to cache some more data.
So the memory manager will give me some more memory from the executor memory pool.
The executor memory was free, so we consumed it.
Now executor is performing some join operation, and it needs memory.
So the executor will start consuming memory as long as there is free space.
But in the end, the memory manager will evict the cached data frames
and spill them to the disk to make more space for the executor.
We borrowed it from the executor pool. Right?
And now the executor needs it.
So the memory manager will evict it.
However, you reached the boundary, and the executor needs more memory.
This boundary is rigid, and the memory manager cannot evict any changed data blocks.
If it was free, the memory manager should have given it to the executor.
But it is not free, and we already occupied it. Right?
However, the executor needs more memory.
How do you manage it?
The executor will try to spill few things to the disk and make some more room for itself.
What if you have things that you cannot spill to disk?
Congratulations! You are hitting the OOM exception.
The Spark memory management is too complex.
But you should understand the structure so you can manage things more efficiently.
And you have the following configurations to control it.
The Spark.executor.memoryOverhead will give you 10% extra of whatever you are asking for the JVM,
and it is outside the JVM and reserved for overhead.
Your JVM memory comes from Spark.executor.memory.
This configuration allows you to ask for the executor JVM memory.
Whatever you get, the spark engine will reserve 300 MB from your allocation.
Now you can configure spark.memory.fraction to tell how much you want to use for DataFrame operations.
The default value is 60%, but you can increase it.
The leftover is kept aside for non-dataframe operations, and we call it user memory.
The spark.memory.storageFraction allows you to set a hard boundary that the memory manager cannot evict.
If you are not dependent on cached data, you can reduce this hard limit.
Finally, you can ask for the executor cores.
The executor core is critical because this configuration defines the maximum number of concurrent threads.
If you have too many threads, you will have too many tasks competing for memory.
If you have a single thread, you might not be able to use the memory efficiently.
In general, Spark recommends two or more cores per executor, but you should not go beyond five cores.
More than five cores cause excessive memory management overhead and contention,
so they recommend stopping at five cores.
Make sense?
Great! So we learned about the JVM heap.
Spark also allows you the following configurations.
These three configurations will give you off-heap memory outside your JVM.
What does it mean?
Let's try to understand.
I talked about the overhead memory, and we also talked about the heap memory.
Now let's talk about the off-heap memory.
We already learned that most of the spark operations and data caching are performed in the JVM heap.
And they perform best when using the on-heap memory.
However, the JVM heap is subject to garbage collection. Right?
So if you are allocating a huge amount of heap memory to your executor,
you might see excessive garbage collection delays.
However, Spark 3.x was optimized to perform some operations in the off-heap memory.
Using off-heap memory gives you the flexibility of managing memory by yourself and avoid GC delays.
Spark can take some advantage of this idea and use off-heap memory.
So if you need an excessive amount of memory for your Spark application,
it might help you take some off-heap memory.
For large memory requirements, mixing some on-heap and off-heap might help you reduce GC delays.
By default, the off-heap memory feature is disabled.
You can enable it by setting spark.memory.offHeap.enabled = true.
And you can set your off-heap memory requirement using spark.memory.offHeap.size.
Great! So, where is this off-heap memory used?
Spark will use the off-heap memory to extend the size of spark executor memory and storage memory.
What does it mean?
The off-heap memory is some extra space.
So if needed, Spark will use it to buffer spark dataframe operations and cache the data frames.
So adding off-heam is an indirect method of increasing the executor and storage memory pools.
Make sense?
Great! Now the last item is the spark.executor.pyspark.memory.
Let's talk about it.
I hope you already learned that Apache Spark is written in Scala.
Scala is a JVM language, and hence Spark is also a JVM application.
But if you are using PySpark, your application may need a Python worker.
These Python workers cannot use JVM heap memory.
So they use off-heap overhead memory.
But what if you need more off-heap overhead memory for your Python workers?
You can set that extra memory requirement for your Python workers using spark.executor.pyspark.memory.
We do not have a default value for this configuration.
Why?
Because most of the PySpark applications do not use external Python libraries,
and they do not need a Python worker.
So Spark does not set a default value for this configuration parameter.
But if you need some extra memory for your Python workers,
you can set the requirement using the spark.executor.pyspark.memory.
Make sense?
Great! That's all for this video.
See you again.
Keep learning and Keep growing.

--- Spark Adaptive Query Execution ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I will talk about the Spark Adaptive Query Execution.
Spark Adaptive Query Execution or AQE is a new feature released in Apache Spark 3.0.
It offers you three capabilities.
Dynamically coalescing shuffle partitions
Dynamically switching join strategies
and dynamically optimizing skew joins
But what are these features, and why do we need them?
What problems do they solve?
So let's try to understand the problems, and then I will talk about how AQE solves those problems.
Let's assume you are running a super simple group-by query in your Spark code.
Here it is.
Or you might have written a Dataframe expression similar to the following.
So what are we doing?
I have a call_records table.
This table stores information about the cell phone calls made by different users.
We record a lot of information in this table, but here is a simplified table structure.
So we record call_id, then the duration of the call in minutes, and we also record which cell tower served the call.
And my Spark SQL is trying to get the sum of call duration by the tower_location.
For these four sample records, you should get the result as shown here.
Make sense?
Great!
But do you know how Spark will execute this query?
We already learned that.
Spark will take the code, create an execution plan for the query, and execute it on the cluster.
The spark job that triggers this query should have a two-stage plan.
It looks similar to this.
The actual plan for the large volume of data might not look the same.
However, you will have two stages.
Stage zero reads the data from the source table and fills it to the output exchange.
The second stage will read the data from the output exchange and brings it to the input exchange.
And this process is known as shuffle/sort.
Why do we have this shuffle/sort in our execution plan?
Because we are doing a groupBy operation and groupBy is a wide-dependency transformation.
So you are likely to have a shuffle/sort in your execution plan.
The stage is dependent on stage zero, so stage one cannot start unless stage zero is complete.
We already learned all this in the earlier section.
Right?
Now let's dig deeper into these exchanges.
Let's look at the input exchange.
The input change might look like this.
I am assuming that my input data source has got only two partitions.
So the stage zero exchange should have two partitions.
I am also assuming that I have data for five towers.
So each partition in this exchange might have some data for tower a, tower b, tower c, and so on.
Make sense?
This is how my exchange looks.
Nothing fancy is happening here.
My stage zero will read data from the source table
and make it available to the exchange for the second stage to read.
I have only two partitions in my input source, so the exchange shows only two partitions.
Make sense?
Now the shuffle/sort operation will read these partitions,
sort them by the tower_location and bring them to the input exchange of stage one.
The final result should look like this.
Wait a minute?
What is this?
Let me explain.
Let's assume I configured spark.sql.shuffle.partitions = 10.
I know the default value for this configuration is 200, but I also know I do not have 200 unique towers.
I am running a query to group by towers, so I reduced the number of shuffle partitions to 10.
So the shuffle/sort will create ten partitions in the exchange.
Even if I have only five unique values, the shuffle/sort will create ten partitions.
Five of them will have data, and the remaining five will be blank partitions.
Make sense?
Now let me ask a question.
How many tasks do you need to execute this stage?
Any guesses?
We need ten tasks.
Why? Because we have ten partitions in the exchange.
Make sense?
And that's a problem.
Five partitions are empty, but Spark will still trigger ten tasks.
The empty partition task will do nothing and finish in milliseconds.
But Spark scheduler needs to spend time scheduling and monitoring these useless tasks.
The overhead is small, but we do have some unnecessary overhead here.
I improved the situation by reducing the shuffle partitions to 10 from the default value of 200.
But that's not an easy thing to do?
Why?
Because I cannot keep changing the shuffle partitions for every query.
Even if I want to do that, I do not know how many unique values my SQL will fetch?
The number of unique keys is dynamic and depends on the dataset.
How am I supposed to know how many shuffle partitions do I need?
That's almost impossible for the developers to know in advance.
Right?
We have another problem here.
Look at these partitions.
Some partitions are big, and others are small.
They are not proportionate.
So a task working on partition one will take a long time while the task doing the partition-2 will finish very quickly.
And that's not good.
Why?
Because the stage is not complete until all the tasks of the stage are complete.
Three tasks processing partitions 2,3 and 4 will finish quickly,
but we still need to wait for partition-1 and partition -4.
And that's a wastage of CPU resources.
The situation becomes worse when one partition becomes excessively long.
For example, look at this.
And this diagram represents a data skew problem.
In this case, one of your towers is processing many calls while others have smaller data sets.
I will come back to the data skew in the following video.
But for now, let's focus on the shuffle partitions.
So here is my shuffle partitions problem.
My query resulted in five disproportionate shuffle partitions.
I made an intelligent guess and decided to reduce my shuffle partitions to ten.
However, the situation is still not very good.
Makes sense?
Now the question is this.
How do I decide the number of shuffle partitions for my Spark job?
Spark 3.0 offers Adaptive Query Execution to solve this problem.
You must enable it, and the AQE will take care of setting the number of your shuffle partitions.
But how that magic happens?
Super simple.
Your input data is already loaded in stage zero exchange.
Stage zero is already done, and data has come to the exchange.
Now Spark will start the shuffle/sort.
So it can compute the statistics on this data and find out some details such as the following.
And this is called dynamically computing the statistics on your data during the shuffle/sort.
Such dynamic statistics are accurate and most up-to-date.
Right?
When Spark knows enough information about your data,
it will dynamically adjust the number of shuffle partitions for the next stage.
For example, in my case, Spark might dynamically set the shuffle partitions to four.
And the result of that setting looks like this.
So what do we have?
We have four shuffle partitions for stage one.
Those five empty partitions are gone.
Spark also merged two small partitions to create one larger partition.
So instead of having five disproportionate partitions, we have four partitions.
And these four are a little more proportionate.
Right?
Now let me ask you the same question?
How many tasks do you need to run this stage?
Any guess?
We need four tasks.
Task 3 working on partition-3 will finish quickly, but the other three tasks will take almost equal time.
So we saved one CPU slot, and we also eliminated the useless empty tasks.
Make sense?
Great!
I talked about three benefits of implementing adaptive-query-execution.
Here they are.
And I hope you now understand the first benefit of enabling adaptive-query-execution.
Let me quickly summarize it for you.
Spark shuffle/sort has a critical impact on Spark query performance.
One fundamental tuning property of shuffle operation is the number of output partitions.
You can set this number using spark.sql.shuffle.partitions.
However, it is almost impossible to know the best number
because it depends on your data size and other factors.
We have two problems here.
If we configure a small number of partitions, then the data size of each partition may be very large.
A large shuffle partition may cause two types of problems.
Your task may need a lot of memory to process the partition,
and it might slow down juggling data between memory and disk.
In the worst case, you may also see an OOM exception.
What if you have too many partitions?
The data size of each partition may be very small,
and there will be a lot of small network data fetch to read the shuffle blocks.
The point is straight.
Your query performs slowly because of the inefficient network I/O.
A large number of partitions will also result in many tasks
and puts more burden on the Spark task scheduler.
Make sense?
Great!
To solve this problem, we can set a relatively large number of shuffle partitions at the beginning
and enable Adaptive query execution.
The AQE feature of Apache Spark will compute shuffle file statistics at runtime and perform two things.
Determine the best shuffle partition number for you and set it for the next stage.
Combine or coalesce the small partitions into bigger partitions to achieve even data distribution amongst the task.
Make sense?
Great!
You can enable AQE using the following configuration.
The default value of this configuration is false.
You have four additional configurations to tune the AQE behavior.
The first configuration sets the initial number of shuffle partitions.
Dynamically determining the best number and setting that value is applied later, AQE starts with this value.
This configuration works as the max number of shuffle partitions.
The Spark AQE cannot set a number larger than this.
This configuration doesn't have a default value.
So if you do not set this configuration, Spark will set it equal to spark.sql.shuffle.partitions.
Now let's talk about the second configuration.
This configuration defines the minimum number of shuffle partitions
after coalescing or combining multiple partitions.
We do not have a default value for this configuration also.
So if you do not set this configuration, Spark will set it equals to spark.default.parallelism.
Make sense?
Great!
So we learned about how to control the maximum and minimum shuffle partitions for AQE.
Now let's talk about the third configuration.
The default value for this configuration is 64 MB,
and it works as an advisory size of the shuffle partition during adaptive optimization.
So this configuration takes effect when Spark coalesces small shuffle partitions or splits skewed shuffle partition.
I will talk about splitting the skewed partitions in the following video.
So, for now, you can think of this number as an advisory to AQE.
The AQE will use this number for determining the size of the partitions and combine them accordingly.
Make sense?
Great!
The last configuration is simple.
The default value of this configuration is true.
If you set this value to false, Spark AQE will not combine or coalesce smaller partitions.
Make sense?
So you have five configurations.
The first one is a kind of master configuration to enable or disable the AQE feature.
If you disable it, the other four configurations do not take any effect.
But if you enabled AQE, you can tune it further using the other four configurations.
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again in the following lecture, and I will talk about the other two AQE features.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Spark AQE Dynamic Join Optimization ---

Welcome Back.
In the earlier video, I talked about the three features of Spark Adaptive Query Execution.
Here they are.
I also covered the Dynamically coalescing shuffle partitions.
In this lecture, I will talk about the Dynamically switching join strategies.
So let's start understanding the problem first.
Why do we need dynamic join optimization?
Let's assume you have two large tables.
And you are joining these two tables using the following query.
I am showing a Spark SQL here, but you might be doing it using an equivalent dataframe expression as shown here.
Both are the same.
Both of your tables are large tables, so you are expecting a sort-merge join to take place.
You ran your job and checked the execution plan.
Here it is.
So what do you see?
I am reading two tables, and I have two stages of reading those tables.
So here is my first stage,
and this one is the second stage.
Both these stages send data to exchange.
And everything after the exchange is part of the third stage.
So my third stage collects the data from the exchange,
performs the sorting operation on the data, and finally joins them.
Right?
That's what happens in a sort-merge join operation.
Do you see any problems or opportunities to optimize this operation?
Let me show you.
I am assuming both of my tables are large enough.
But I am also applying a filter condition on the large_tbl_2.
The large table_2 is a 100GB table, but what is the effect of applying a filter?
How many rows am I selecting post filter?
You did some investigation and realized that you selected only 7 MB of data from the large table_2.
Now think about the situation once again.
Your large_table_1 is 100 GB, and you are selecting all rows from this table.
Your large_tbl_2 is also 100 GB, but you are selecting only 7 MB from that table.
If you know this information already, will you apply for a sort-merge join?
No!
I want to use broadcast hash join here because one of my tables is small enough.
Right?
I mean, the table is large, but I am filtering records and selecting only 7 MB of data.
It makes more sense to use broadcast join and avoid the shuffle/sort operation.
Isn't it?
But why isn't it happening?
Well,
Spark will not apply Broadcast hash join if Broadcast Join Threshold is broken.
So you decided to check the following configuration.
But the value is 10MB, and that's the default value.
You haven't changed it.
What does it mean?
Simple!
You are selecting 7 MB from a large table, and that's well below the broadcast threshold.
But Spark is not applying the broadcast join.
Why is that?
Simple!
The Spark execution plan is created before the spark starts the job execution.
Spark doesn't know the size of the table, so it applied a sort-merge join.
Okay, so if I compute statistics on the table, will spark apply the broadcast join?
Well, It may or may not.
Spark will not apply broadcast if you do not have a column histogram for the filter column.
It cannot apply broadcast join if your statistics are outdated.
So one solution is to analyze your Spark tables and keep your table and column statistics up to date.
Another solution is to enable AQE.
Spark Adaptive Query Execution can help you in this situation.
We already learned that the AQE computes statistics on the shuffle data.
Right?
We learned that in the earlier video.
So AQE will compute the statistics on the shuffle data and use that information to do the following things.
We already learned the dynamic coalescing of shuffle partitions in the earlier lecture.
In this lecture, let's see how AQE changes the join strategy.
I enabled AQE and executed the same query to check the new execution plan.
Here it is.
So what is happening here?
We still have three stages.
Stage one and Stage two are scanning the tables and sending data to exchange.
But we enabled AQE.
So the Adaptive Query will compute statistics on the exchange data.
The statistics tell that the data size of large_tbl_2 is small enough to apply broadcast join.
So the AQE will dynamically change the execution plan and apply broadcast hash join.
And you can see that in the new query plan.
Right?
Unfortunately, we still have the shuffle, but we saved the sort operation.
We couldn't save the shuffle operation, and you still see the exchange in the query plan.
Right?
But the sort operation is gone.
AQE cannot avoid shuffle.
Why?
Because the AQE computes the statistics during the shuffle.
Right?
So I will be there.
But the AQE will dynamically change the plan and apply broadcast hash join to save the expensive sort operation.
Make sense?
Great!
But we still have a small problem here.
The shuffle operation is already complete.
We already distributed data from stage one and two to stage three exchange.
Right?
But if we apply broadcast join now, are we going to broadcast the table once again?
Yes.
That's how the broadcast works.
Right?
So AQE also gives you another configuration, as shown here.
The default value for this configuration is true.
So if you are not setting this value false, your optimized execution plan looks like this.
What is the difference?
Both the plans are almost the same.
But you will see this Custom Shuffle Reader.
They also call it the local shuffle reader.
This Custom shuffle reader is specifically designed to further optimize the AQE broadcast join
by reducing the network traffic.
So if you are using AQE, do not disable localShuffleReader.
It is anyway enabled by default.
Make Sense?
Great!
And that's all.
I hope you now understand how AQE dynamically switches the join strategy from a sort-merge join
to a broadcast join.
Let me quickly summarize.
Spark supports many join strategies.
However, the broadcast hash join is usually the most performant.
But you can apply broadcast join if one side of the join can fit well in memory.
And for this reason, Spark plans a broadcast hash join
if the estimated size of a join table is smaller than the broadcast-size threshold.
But estimating the table size is problematic in two scenarios.
You applied a highly selective filter on the table.
or
Your join table is generated at runtime after a series of complex transformations and operations
In the first case, an up-to-date table and column statistics might help.
However, the join table is dynamically created after a series of complex operations in the second case,
so statistics are not even applicable.
Spark AQE replans the join strategy at runtime
based on the most accurate join relation size to solve this problem.
So AQE calculates the table statistics at runtime using the shuffle exchange.
And reoptimizes the query plan converting sort-merge join to a broadcast hash join.
Make sense?
That's all for this video.
See you again in the following video.
Keep Learning and Keep growing.

--- Handling Data Skew in Spark Joins ---

Welcome Back.
In the earlier videos, I talked about the three features of Spark Adaptive Query Execution.
Here they are.
I also covered the first two.
In this video, I will talk about the Dynamically optimizing skew joins.
So let's start understanding the problem first.
Why do we need dynamic join skew optimization?
Let's assume you have two larger tables.
And you are joining these two tables using the following query.
I am showing a Spark SQL here, but you might be doing it using an equivalent dataframe expression as shown here.
Both are the same.
Both of your tables are large tables, so you are expecting a sort-merge join to take place.
You ran the job and checked the execution plan.
Here it is.
So what is happening here?
I am reading table one and table two.
These two tables should join, so we have a shuffle operation for both tables.
And that's why you see these two exchanges here.
The first exchange partitions the data by the join key for the first table.
And the second exchange partitions the data by the join key for the second table.
Now let's dig deeper into these two changes.
Let me assume that my first table had two partitions.
Here it is.
Each color represents data for one unique join key.
So we read these two initial partitions, and then we shuffled them.
Right?
The result of the shuffle looks like this.
Make sense?
The primary purpose of the shuffle is to repartition the data by the key.
And that's what is happening here.
What about the second table.
That also goes through the same process.
Let me add that to the diagram.
Make sense?
So partitions for the first table are coming from the left side, and the second table comes from the right side.
Spark appropriately partitioned the data by the key.
Now, all we need to do is sort each partition by the key and merge the records from both sides.
I have four partitions to join.
So I will need four tasks.
Each task will pickup one color, sort the data, and merge it to complete the join operation.
Simple! Isn't it.
Do you see any problem?
I do.
The green color partition on the left side is quite large.
Isn't it?
The green partition is skewed.
Look at the blue, orange, and yellow.
They are smaller, but the green one is almost double the size.
And that's a problem.
I need more memory to sort and merge the green partition.
I planned 4 GB RAM for each task, and that should be sufficient for the other tasks.
But the task working with the green color cannot manage the sort/merge operation with 4 GB RAM.
What can I do?
Should I increase the Spark memory?
Well, I can increase it, but that's not a good solution.
Why?
I have two reasons.
The first reason is memory wastage.
I can increase the memory, assuming that I will have a skewed partition.
But I am not sure if all my joins will result in a skewed partition.
What if they don't?
You might have 10 or 15 join operations in your Spark application.
All other join operations work perfectly fine with 4 GB task memory.
However, you have one skewed join, and one task needs extra memory.
Increasing memory for one specific join or task is not possible.
So you will end up increasing memory for your entire application, and that's wastage.
Increasing memory for skewed join is not a permanent solution.
Why?
Because data keeps changing.
Right?
You might have a skewed partition today, which required 6 GB to complete the sort/merge operation.
But you do not know what happens a week later.
You got new data, and the skew is now more significant.
You now need 8 GB to pass through that skew.
I cannot let my application fail every week or month, investigate the logs,
and identify that we need more memory because data is now more skewed.
That's ridiculous.
Right?
So what is the solution?
Spark AQE offers you an excellent solution for this problem.
You can enable skew optimization using the following configurations.
The first configuration enables the Spark AQE feature.
The second configuration enables the skew-join optimization.
We have two more configurations, and I will talk about them in a minute.
But let's try to understand what happens when we enable AQE and skew-join optimization.
So here we are with our scenario.
I have four shuffle partitions, so I will need four tasks to perform this sort/merge join operation.
However, the green partition is skewed.
So the green task will struggle to finish and take longer to complete.
In the worst case, it might fail due to a memory crunch.
But the other three tasks will complete quickly and normally because they are small enough.
However, I enabled AQE and skew-join optimization.
So Spark AQE will detect this skewed partition.
And it will do two things.
Split the skewed partition on the left side into two or more partitions.
In our example, splitting into two is sufficient so let's assume Spark splitting it into two partitions.
Spark will also duplicate the matching right-side partition.
That's all.
Problem solved.
Now we have five partitions.
Earlier, we had four, but now we have five partitions.
So we will need five tasks.
The data partitions for all five tasks are almost the same,
so they will consume uniform resources and finish simultaneously.
Make sense?
Great!
That's how AQE and Skew Join optimization works.
I talked about two configurations.
We also have two more configurations to customize the Skew Join optimization.
These two configurations are used to define the skew.
What does it mean?
Simple!
When do we consider a partition as a skewed partition and start splitting it?
Spark AQE assumes that the partition is skewed and starts splitting when both thresholds are broken.
Now let's talk about these thresholds.
The default value of skewedPartitionFactor is five.
So a partition is considered skewed if its size is larger than five times the median partition size.
The default value of skewedPartitionThresholdInBytes is 256MB.
So a partition is considered skewed if its size in bytes is larger than this threshold.
But remember!
Spark AQE will initiate the split if only if both the thresholds are broken.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all about the Spark AQE Skew join optimization.
I started the Spark AQE discussion with the following three features.
And I covered all three features in three videos, including this one.
That's all about the Spark AQE.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Spark Dynamic Partition Pruning ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I will talk about Dynamic Partition Pruning in Apache Spark.
Dynamic Partition Pruning is a new feature available in Spark 3.0 and above.
And this feature is enabled by default.
However, if you want to disable it, you can use the following configuration.
The default value for this configuration is true in Spark 3.0.
So you don't have to do anything to enable Spark Dynamic Partition Pruning.
But in this video, we want to understand the following.
Why do we need Dynamic Partition Pruning?
and What is Dynamic Partition Pruning?
So let's start with the problem statement and try to understand why do we need it?
Let's assume you have two tables.
The first table is an orders table, and it stores all your orders.
The high-level table structure looks like this.
This table is huge because it stores thousands of orders every day and millions of orders a year.
So you decided to partition it on order_date.
Here is a screenshot of how my orders data set is stored.
I have done it on a local machine.
However, the arrangement is almost the same as on a distributed storage such as HDFS.
But you might ask the following question.
Why do we partition it on the order date?
The answer is simple.
You know you are querying this table on the order date.
Here is an example code.
So what am I doing?
I am reading the orders data set.
Then applying a filter on order_date and finally computing total sales for 3rd Feb 2021.
I ran this code and checked my query plan.
Here is the screenshot.
The right-side image shows the physical plan for this query.
It clearly shows that Spark performed six steps to complete this query.
The first step is to scan or read the parquet file.
Right?
But Spark is doing a smart thing here.
Let's look at the details of step one.
Do you see these Partition Filters?
Spark applied Partition Filters on the order_date column, and it is reading only one partition.
The plan also shows a number of files read one.
Right?
So what is happening here?
In a typical case, Spark should read all the partitions of my parquet data set and then apply the filter.
But my data set was partitioned on the order_date column.
So Spark decided to read only one partition that belongs to 3rd Feb 2021.
Make sense?
Great!
So I am trying to show you two features of Spark query optimization.
Predicate Pushdown
and Partition Pruning
The predicate pushdown means Spark will push down the where clause filters down in the steps
and apply them as early as possible.
I mean, Spark will not try a typical sequence to read the data first, then filter, and finally, calculate the sums.
No!
Spark will push the filter condition down to the scan step and apply the where clause when reading the data itself.
Make sense?
Great!
But predicate pushdown doesn't help much unless your data is partitioned on the filter columns.
My data set was already partitioned on order_date.
Right?
So Spark decided to read only one partition for 3rd Feb 2021.
It can simply leave all other partitions, and that feature is known as Partition Pruning.
Make sense?
Great!
So I hope you now understand predicate pushdown and partition pruning.
These two features will optimize your query and reduce the read volume of your data.
If you are reading less amount of data, your queries run faster.
Right?
Great!
Now come to the dynamic partition pruning.
What is Dynamic Partition Pruning?
Let's try to understand that.
Let's assume you have another table.
Here it is.
Let's call it the dates table.
If you have any experience in a data warehouse, you can quickly identify this table.
This table is known as the date dimension in the data warehousing world.
My orders table is a fact table, and the dates table is a dimension table.
This kind of table structure is common in data warehouses.
Now let's assume I am running a query like this.
So what am I doing here?
I want to calculate the sum of sales for February 2021.
Here is an equivalent dataframe expression.
The SQL and the dataframe expressions are the same.
You can execute this code on an older version of Spark where dynamic partition pruning is not available.
Or, you can disable the dynamic partition pruning feature and try this SQL.
I tried, and I got the following execution plan.
This is a typical sort/merge join execution plan.
I am reading the parquet files and also reading the other data set.
Both are going for a shuffle operation, and hence you can see these two exchanges.
Finally, Spark will sort, then merge and finally aggregate it.
That's all.
My Parquet files are partitioned on the order date column, but that partitioning does not benefit me.
If you see the scan parquet step in the diagram, you can see the number of files read four.
The physical plan shows the partition filter step, but it is not pruning any partitions
because we do not have any filter condition on the order date.
If you look at the SQL query, we are filtering for year and month columns on the dates table.
What does that mean?
Simple!
We want to read all the partitions for February 2021.
But Spark is reading other month partitions also.
Right?
The best case is to read only February 2021 partitions and leave all other partitions.
However, Spark is not applying partition pruning here.
Why?
Because the filter conditions are on the dates table.
They are not on the orders tables.
How to improve it?
You must do two things.
Enable Dynamic Partition Pruning feature.
and Apply broadcast on the dimension table
The Dynamic partition pruning is enabled by default in Spark 3 and above.
So I do not need to do anything because I am using Spark 3.
But I must apply a broadcast to my dimension table.
So I modified my code, and it now looks like this.
This code is the same as earlier.
But now I have applied broadcast() to the date_df.
I ran this code once again, and here is the new execution plan.
Let's look at the plan and see what is happening here.
My dates df is going for a broadcast exchange.
But then, Spark creates a subquery from the broadcasted dates_df and sending it as an input to the parquet scan.
And you can see the number of files read.
We are now reading only two files.
So what happened here?
Spark applied partition pruning, and now it is reading only February 2021 partitions.
If you look at the physical plan and check out the scan parquet details,
you will see a dynamic pruning expression.
The point is straight.
Spark Dynamic partition pruning can take a filter condition from your dimension table
and inject it into your fact table as a subquery.
Once a subquery is injected into your fact table, Spark can apply partition pruning on your fact table.
It works like magic.
But using this feature is not straightforward.
You must understand the following things.
You must have a fact and dimension-like setup.
When I say fact and dimensions, I mean one large table and another small table.
Your large table or the fact table must be partitioned so Spark can try partition pruning.
You must broadcast your smaller table or the dimension table.
If it is smaller than 10 MB, then Spark should automatically broadcast it.
However, you should make sure that your dimension table is broadcasted.
If you meet all three conditions, Spark will most likely apply dynamic partition pruning to optimize your queries.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Data Caching in Spark ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I will talk about caching Spark data frames in the memory.
We already learned about the Spark memory pool in an earlier video.
Spark memory pool is broken down into two sub-pools.
Storage memory
and Executor memory
We also learned the purpose of these two memory pools.
Right?
Spark will use the Executor pool to perform dataframe computations.
And we can use the storage pool for caching data frames.
But how do you cache your Dataframes in the storage pool?
What are the benefits of caching your Dataframes?
When should we cache, and when should we avoid caching your data frames?
How to uncache it?
What are the different formats of caching?
What if we do not have enough memory to cache the entire dataframe?
Answers to all these questions are essential and critical for any Spark developer.
And that's what we are going to explore and learn in this video.
So let's start with the following question.
How do we cache a DataFrame in the executor storage pool?
Well, we have two methods for doing this.
cache() method
and persist() method
I will show you how to use them in a minute.
But before that, I wanted to talk about the difference between these two.
So the question is this.
What is the difference between cache() and persist()
Both of these methods will cache your dataframe in the executor storage pool.
At a high level, they are the same because they do the same thing - cache the dataframe.
But there is a slight difference.
The cache() method does not take any argument.
However, the persist() method takes an optional argument for the storage level.
So the signature for the persist method is like this.
You also have an alternative like this.
Both of these alternatives are to specify the storage level.
So let me quickly recap the difference between cache() and persist()
The cache method does not take any argument,
and it will cache your dataframe using the default MEMORY_AND_DISK storage level.
However, they persist() method is more flexible.
The persist() method will also cache the dataframe, but it allows you to configure the storage level.
Make sense?
Great!
But what is the storage level?
Let's try to understand it with an example.
Here is a simple Spark DataFrame code.
What am I doing?
I am creating a dataframe of one million rows and repartitioning it to 10 uniform partitions.
Why am I repartitioning?
Because I wanted to demo you how a partitioned dataframe is cached in your spark memory.
Simple.
No other specific reason.
If you are loading a dataframe from parquet or other types of files,
your dataframe is most likely to have multiple partitions.
But I am creating a dataframe at runtime,
so I have to repartition it to show you how multiple partitions behave when you cache it.
Great!
Then I am calling the cache() method to cache my dataframe in Spark storage memory.
Finally, I am executing the take(10) action.
The cache() method is a lazy transformation.
So Spark will not do anything until we execute an action.
That is why I am executing the take(10) action.
The take(10) action will load one partition to Spark memory and give me ten records.
Make sense?
Great!
I ran this code and checked the storage tab of my Spark UI.
Here is the screenshot.
What do you see?
I have one partition in the cache.
This row shows the details of my cached partition.
So what do you learn here?
Many things.
Let me explain it one by one.
I created a dataframe of 10 partitions.
Then I cached it.
But the spark is showing only one partition in the cache.
Why?
Simple.
I used take(10) action.
The take(10) action will bring only one partition in the memory and return one record from the loaded partition.
Right?
That's how take(10) is supposed to work.
Since we brought only one partition to memory, the spark will cache only one partition.
Make sense?
We also learned that Spark would cache the whole partition.
I am taking only ten records from the loaded partition, but Spark will cache the entire partition.
What does it mean?
Simple!
Spark will always cache the entire partition.
If you have a memory to cache 7.5 partitions,
Spark will cache only seven partitions because the 8rth partition does not fit in the memory.
Spark will never cache a portion of the partition.
It will either cache the entire partition or nothing but never cache a portion of the partition.
Make sense?
Great!
We also learned that the default storage level for the cache() method is Memory Deserialized 1 X replicated.
I will come back to the storage level in a minute.
You can also see the size of the cached partition here.
Right?
Now let me change the code and try it again.
I changed the take(10) method and replaced it with the count() action.
The count() action will bring all the partitions in the memory, compute the count and return it.
Right?
I ran this code and check the storage tab once again.
Here is the screenshot.
Great!
Now you see all the ten partitions are cached().
Right?
Why?
Because count() action forced all the partitions to be loaded in the executor memory.
We have enough memory to cache all ten partitions, so Spark is caching all the ten partitions.
Make sense?
The storage level of all the cached blocks is still the same as Memory Deserialized 1 X replicated.
Make sense?
Great!
Now let's use the persist() method and change the storage level.
But before that, let me summarize few things.
Spark cache() as well as persist() methods are lazy transformations.
So they do not cache() anything until an action is executed.
The cache() and persist() methods are smart enough to cache only what you access.
So if you are accessing only 3 or 5 partitions, Spark will cache only those partitions.
Spark will never cache a portion of a partition.
It will always cache the whole partition if and only if the partition fits in the storage.
Make sense?
Great!
Now let me change the code and use persist() method.
Here is my new code.
Everything is the same as earlier.
But now, I am using persist method instead of the cache() method.
And here is the screenshot of Spark UI.
Do you see any difference?
I don't see any.
Why?
Because the cache() method and the persist() method work in the same way.
The persist() method allows us to customize the storage level, but the rest is the same as the cache() method.
In this example, I configured the storage level to the same as cache() storage level.
So you don't see any difference.
But now, let me change the storage level and try to understand the storage characteristics.
Here is the format for the StorageLevel method.
In the current example, I am setting the following values.
So what am I saying here?
I am saying use memory to cache the Spark DataFrame partitions.
Right?
I can also make it like this.
So now I am extending the cache to the disk.
If the partition does not fit into the Spark memory, Spark will cache it in the local disk of the executor.
I can also extend it to off-heap memory for caching my dataframe partitions.
However, we already learned that you should have added some off-heap memory to Spark.
Right?
If you haven't added off-heap memory for your Spark application,
setting this parameter should not have any effect.
Now let's come to deserialization.
What is this?
Let me explain.
Spark always stores data on a disk in a serialized format.
But when data comes to Spark memory, it must be deserialized into Java objects.
That's mandatory for Spark to work correctly.
But when you cache data in memory, you can cache it in serialized format or deserialized format.
The deserialized format takes a little extra space, and the serialized format is compact.
So you can save some memory using the serialized format.
But when Spark wants to use that data, it must deserialize it.
So you will spend some extra CPU overhead.
The point is straight.
You can cache your data in a serialized format
and save some memory but incur CPU costs when Spark access the cached data.
Alternatively, you can cache it deserialized and save your CPU overhead.
The choice is yours, but the recommendation is to keep it deserialized and save your CPU.
And this configuration only applies to memory.
Your disk-based cache is always serialized.
Make sense?
Great!
So let me change the code and set some different storage levels, and try it again.
Here is my new code example.
This time, I am setting the storage level to cache data in memory.
If I do not have enough memory, then cache it in the disk.
I don't want to cache anything in off-heap memory because I haven't added off-heap memory for my application.
I am also willing to try to cache my data in serialized format.
So I am setting the deserialized to false.
The last one is the replication factor.
I am setting it to one because I do not want to cache multiple copies of my data.
If you set this value to 3, Spark will cache three copies of your dataframe partitions.
All those three copies will be cached on three different executors,
but I think caching multiple copies is wastage of memory.
You can cache multiple copies if you have some specific reason.
Otherwise, one copy of cache is more than enough.
Let's try running it and see what happens.
Here it is.
I still see everything cached in memory.
And that's obvious because I have enough memory to cache all my partitions in the memory.
I enabled disk caching also, but Spark will cache it on the disk when I do not have enough memory.
So what I see here is perfectly fine.
This time I stored it as serialized.
So you can see the size of each partition is smaller than earlier.
When I stored it as deserialized, it took more memory space, but the serialized storage takes a little lesser.
Make sense?
Great!
Let me quickly summarize.
The persist method allows you to customize your cache storage level and cache it.
You can cache your data in memory only, or you can cache it in the disk only.
You can also configure it to store both in memory and disk.
If you have some off-heap memory, you can also expand your cache memory to off-heap storage.
So assume you enabled all three storage levels, then Spark will cache your data in memory.
That's the first preference.
If you need more storage, Spark will use off-heap memory.
You still want to cache more data; Spark will use the local disk.
Make sense?
Great!
You can keep your cache in serialized or in deserialized formats.
But this configuration is only applicable for memory.
Disk and off-heap do not support deserialized formats.
They always store data in serialized formats.
The last option is to increase the replication factor of your cached blocks.
Increasing replication can give better data locality to Spark task schedular and make your application run faster.
However, it will cost you a lot of memory.
Make sense?
I used StorageLevel() function to demo the persist method.
But you can also use some predefined constants.
Here is an example.
In this example, I am using a predefined storage level constant.
The constant makes my code more readable, but you can also use the StorageLevel() function.
Here is an indicative list of available constants.
You can refer to the documentation for a more exhaustive list.
The numbers 2 and 3 in these constants represent the replication factor.
Great!
That's almost all except two questions.
How to uncache?
When should we cache, and when should we avoid caching your data frames?
You can remove your date from the cache that you previously cached using the unpersist() method.
We do not have any method called uncache() but unpersist() will do the job.
Now the last question.
When should we cache, and when should we avoid caching your data frames?
When you want to access large DataFrame multiple times across Spark actions,
You should consider caching your data frames.
But make sure you know your memory requirements and configure your memory accordingly.
Do not cache your data frames when significant portions of them don't fit in the memory.
If you are not resuing your data frames frequently or too small, do not cache them.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Repartition and Coalesce ---

Welcome Back.
I already talked about some critical and applied concepts
such as Spark memory management, AQE, and Dynamic Partition Pruning.
In the next couple of videos, I want to cover the following essential concepts.
These are small and simple knowledge items that are often ignored.
However, I want to cover them and make you familiar with these ideas quickly.
So let's start with the Dataframe repartition, and then I will talk about the Coalesce.
Spark Dataframe API allows you to repartition your Dataframe.
They offer you two methods as listed here.
Both the methods are almost the same except for one difference.
The repartition() method will use a hash function to determine the target partition of your row.
However, the repartitionByRange() will partition your data using a range of values.
For example, 0 to 10 goes in the first partition, then 10 to 20 goes in the second partition, and so on.
That's the only difference.
Otherwise, both the functions work in the same way.
You should also understand one more important thing about repartitionByRange().
The repartitionByRange() method internally uses data sampling to estimate the partition ranges.
So the output of repartitionByRange() may not be consistent.
I mean, if you execute the same code twice, you may see different partition ranges.
And that should be perfectly fine in many cases.
Great!
Now let's see how do they work.
The repartition() method takes two optional arguments.
Number of partitions
and List of columns
One of these two arguments is mandatory.
So all the following calls are valid.
Similarly, you can also assume repartitionByRange() because both have the same structure.
Now let's see how they work.
The repartition(10) will create ten new partitions of your dataframe.
How?
Simple!
The repartition() is a wide dependency transformation.
So it will cause a shuffle/sort of your dataframe, and the final output will have ten new partitions.
And all those ten partitions will be uniform in size.
Here is an example code and a screenshot of Spark UI to explain it.
So what am I doing here?
I am creating a dataframe of one million rows, repartition it to 10 uniform partitions, and cache it.
Why cache it?
Because I want to see them in Spark UI and learn how repartition behaves.
Make Sense?
Great!
So what do you see on the Spark UI?
We have ten partitions, and all are of the same size.
Correct?
So the repartition(10) creates ten uniform partitions.
Now let's create another example and see how repartition works for a column.
Here it is.
What am I doing in this new code?
I am reading a parquet data source and repartitioning it using order_date.
And how many partitions do I get?
I got ten partitions once again.
But How?
Why I got ten partitions, and why not five partitions or maybe 200 partitions?
Let me explain.
The repartition() is a wide dependency transformation.
So it will cause shuffle/sort and repartition of your data using the order_date column.
But the number of partitions is controlled by the spark.sql.shuffle.partitions configuration.
I configured the spark.sql.shuffle.partitions to 10, so I got ten partitions.
Make sense?
But you can override this behavior by supplying the number of partitions.
Here is another example.
This time, I want only five output partitions, and I also want those partitions based on a column name.
So Spark will partition my data on the order_date and limit the number of output partitions to five.
Make sense?
Great!
But you can also see that the partition size is not uniform.
So repartition on a column name does not guarantee a uniform partitioning.
Make sense?
Great!
So let me summarize few points.
You can use repartition() to create uniform partitions of your dataframe.
You can also use one or more columns to repartition your data frames.
Repartition causes a shuffle/sort, and the number of output partitions depends on the shuffle partitions configuration.
You can override the shuffle partition configuration by setting the numPartitions argument.
Repartitioning on column name does not ensure the uniform size of output partitions.
That's all about repartition except for one last question.
When do you want to repartition your dataframe?
Remember one thing.
Repartition will cause a shuffle/sort, which is an expensive operation.
You should almost always try to avoid unnecessary shuffle/sort.
So repartitioning your dataframe must be done with caution.
If you do not see any benefit of repartitioning, you must avoid it.
And I see few situations for repartitioning your dataframe.
You want to reuse the dataframe multiple times and filter your data on some specific column.
In that case, repartitioning on the filter column could be worth it.
You have very few partitions, and your data is not well distributed across your cluster.
In that case, repartitioning with a larger number of partitions
can spread your data more appropriately across the cluster and speed up the rest of your processing.
Your partitions are large, or you have some skewed partitions.
In that scenario, you may want to uniformly repartition your dataframe to a larger number of uniform partitions.
So repartitioning could be helpful in a few scenarios,
but you should make sure that you are getting benefits and possibly test it.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all about repartitioning.
You should use repartitioning when you want to increase the number of partitions or repartition on specific columns.
We should not use repartitioning to reduce the number of partitions.
Instead, you can use the Coalesce method for reducing the number of partitions.
Here is the structure of the coalesce method.
The coalesce() method takes the target number of partitions
and combines the local partitions available on the same worker node to achieve the target.
For example, let's assume you have a ten-node cluster.
And you have a dataframe of 20 partitions.
Those 20 partitions are spread on these ten worker nodes.
Now you want to reduce the number of partitions to 10.
So you executed coalesce(10) on your dataframe.
So Spark will try to collapse the local partitions and reduce your partition count to 10.
The final state might look like this.
You must learn the following things about the coalesce.
Coalesce doesn't cause a shuffle/sort.
It will combine local partitions only.
So you should use coalesce when you want to reduce the number of partitions.
If you try to increase the number of partitions using coalesce, it will do nothing.
You must use repartition() to increasing the number of partitions.
And you should also avoid using repartition to reduce the number of partitions.
Why?
Because you can reduce your partitions using coalesce without doing a shuffle?
Right?
You can also reduce your partition count using repartition(), but it will cost you a shuffle operation.
Make sense?
Finally, coalesce can cause skewed partitions.
So try to avoid drastically decreasing the number of partitions.
It can cause skewed partitions, which may lead to an OOM exception.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all about repartition and coalesce.
See you in the following video.
Keep Learning and Keep growing.

--- Dataframe Hints ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I am going to talk about the hints in Spark.
Spark allows you to add two types of hints to your data frames and Spark SQL.
Partitioning Hints
and Join Hints
We have the following four partitioning hints.
The COALESCE hint can be used to reduce the number of partitions to the specified number of partitions.
It takes a partition number as a parameter.
I will show you an example of this hint and help you learn how to use it and how it works.
The REPARTITION hint can be used to repartition your dataframe to the specified number of partitions.
It takes a partition number, column names, or both as parameters.
The REPARTITION_BY_RANGE is similar to REPARTITION, but it uses the data range for partitioning.
We already learned about repartition and coalesce in an earlier video.
These hints also offer similar functionality and behave in the same manner.
But since these are hints, Spark doesn't guarantee that it will apply the hint.
Great!
So we have another REBALANCE hint.
This one is added later than spark 3.0.
The REBALANCE hint can be used to rebalance the query result output partitions
so that every partition is of a reasonable size (not too small and not too big).
It can take column names as parameters and try its best to partition the query result by these columns.
This is the best effort: Spark will split the skewed partitions to make these partitions not too big if there are skews.
This hint is helpful when you need to write the result of this query to a table to avoid too small/big files.
This hint is ignored if AQE is not enabled.
That's all about the repartition hints.
We also have four join hints.
These hints allow you to suggest the join strategy for Spark.
When different join strategy hints are specified on both sides of a join,
Spark prioritizes hints in the same order as I have listed here.
The last one is known as shuffle-and-replicate nested loop join.
These join hints also have some alias.
So the BROADCAST and BROADCASTJOIN and MAPJOIN are the same.
They are just alias for the same hint.
Great!
That's all about listing the join hints.
Now let's see how to use them.
If you are using Spark SQL, you can use these hints using the following syntax.
And here are some examples.
So using join hints in Spark SQL is simple and straight.
But how do we apply them in Dataframes?
We have two methods to apply hints in a dataframe.
Use spark sql functions
or use Dataframe.hint() method
I have an example here that uses both types of hints in a dataframe.
So what am I doing?
I am creating two Dataframes flight_time_df1 and flight_time_df2.
The df1 is a large dataframe, and the df2 is a small one.
So I wanted to apply the broadcast hint to the df2 so I can avoid shuffle sort.
And that's why I applied a broadcast() function around the flight_time_df2.
The broadcast() function is one approach to apply the broadcast hint to a dataframe.
I could have also done it like this.
Both the methods have the same effect.
Finally, I am joining two data frames and applying a coalesce hint to the join result.
I know the default shuffle partition value is set to 200.
So If I do not apply the coalesce hint, the join_df will have 200 partitions.
But I applied a coalesce(5) hint.
So Spark will coalesce it into five partitions only.
Make sense?
Great!
I executed the above code without these two hints and also executed them with both the hints.
Here are two execution plans.
The left side plan is for without the hints.
And the right side plan is for both the hints.
You can see that the first plan applies shuffle sort and then a sort-merge join.
The second plan applies a broadcast join and also applies a coalesce in the end.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Broadcast Variables ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I will talk about Spark Broadcast Variables.
Spark broadcast variables are part of the Spark low-level APIs.
If you are using Spark Dataframe APIs, you are not likely to use broadcast variables.
They were primarily used with the Spark low-level RDD APIs.
However, it is essential to understand the concept.
So let me explain it at a high level.
We will use an example code to explain the concept.
Let me quickly explain the requirement, and then I will explain the code.
I want to create a Spark UDF and use it in my spark project.
As we already know, a Spark UDF is nothing but a function
that takes one or more columns as input and returns one transformed column as output.
So I wanted to create udf of the following structure.
This function takes a string product_code and returns a string product name.
And for translating the product code to a product name, the function references a small lookup table.
Here is the lookup data structure.
I am showing a super simple and small lookup dataset here.
But you can think of it as a 5 MB or 10 MB dataset in a real-life scenario.
So the point is straight.
We want to create a UDF and provide it with two inputs.
The first input is a product_code which goes as a function argument.
The second input is a large dataset that should be available to function as a lookup table.
Make sense?
Great!
This is a general requirement.
In these kinds of requirements, we want to create and use UDF.
But we also want to make available some reference data to the Spark UDF.
We cannot pass this reference data to the UDF as a function argument.
So how do we provide it to the UDF?
One easy way is to keep the lookup data in a file, load it at runtime and share it with the UDF.
But how do we share it with the UDF?
We have two ways to do it.
Closure
and Broadcast
Let me show you the code and explain how you can do it.
Here is a super simple example.
I am creating a Spark session, and you already know all this.
Then I read a lookup.csv file from the storage and brought it to the Spark driver as a python dictionary.
Now the prdCode is a Python dictionary object available at the Spark driver.
And we want to share this prdCode object with my UDF.
So, I will broadcast this prdCode object to the Spark cluster.
Now, bdData is my broadcast variable.
So I have two variables here.
prdCode and bdData
prdCode is a standard Python dictionary variable.
However, the bdData is a broadcast variable.
I want to demonstrate a working example.
So I am creating a dataframe at runtime.
I will use this dataframe to test my UDF.
In the following two lines, I am registering my UDF function as Spark SQL UDF and applying it to the dataframe.
All of this is a super simple and standard method for using a Spark UDF.
Now, let's scroll up to the UDF definition.
This is my super simple UDF.
I am accepting the product code as input and returning the product name from the bdData broadcast variable.
So what is happening here?
My UDF function will be called for each record in my dataframe.
Right?
While calling the UDF, I am passing the product_code column to the UDF.
The UDF will look for the product_code in the lookup and return the corresponding product name.
Simple.
I am using the broadcast variable here.
But You can also use the prdCode directly.
Both the approaches are going to work.
But if you are using prdCode, you are using a lambda closure.
And if you are using bdData, you are using a broadcast variable.
But what is the difference between these two approaches?
If you are using a closure, Spark will serialize the closure to each task.
If you have 1000 tasks running on a 30 node cluster, your closure is serialized 1000 times.
But if you are using a broadcast variable,
Spark will serialize it once per worker node and cache it there for future usage.
So you have 1000 tasks and 30 worker nodes.
Right?
In that case, the broadcast variable is serialized only 30 times, once per worker node.
Make sense?
Great!
So let me summarize it.
Broadcast variables are shared, immutable variables
cached on every machine in the cluster instead of serialized with every single task.
And this serialization is lazy.
What does it mean?
The broadcast variable is serialized to a worker node only
if you have at least one task running on the worker node that needs to access the broadcast variable.
However, you should also remember that the broadcast variable must fit into the memory of an executor.
Make sense?
Great!
One last thing before we close this lecture.
Spark Dataframe APIs use this same technique to implement broadcast joins.
So they will bring a small table to the driver as we did in this example.
Then they will broadcast it to the workers for being used in the join.
So if you carefully design your application logic,
you can meet your requirement using broadcast joins in most cases.
However, if you plan to use UDF
and make some datasets available to your UDF for reference,
you can use the broadcast variables, as I demonstrated in this example.
Make sense?
Great!
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Accumulators ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I will talk about Spark Accumulators.
Spark accumulators are part of the Spark low-level APIs.
If you are using Spark Dataframe APIs, you are not likely to use accumulators.
They were primarily used with the Spark low-level RDD APIs.
However, it is essential to understand the concept.
So let me explain it at a high level.
We will use an example code to explain the concept.
Let me quickly explain the requirement, and then I will explain the code.
I have a dataframe that looks like this.
This dataframe represents an aggregated shipment record.
We have a source column, then a destination column, and finally, we have a shipments column.
The shipments column represents the number of shipments from the given source to a destination.
However, we have a slight problem here.
The shipment column is expected to be an integer column.
But we have some bad records in this table.
I want to fix these bad records.
But how do we do it?
I discussed it with the business team, and they suggested a super simple solution.
We are asked to take null if the shipments count is not a valid integer.
So I decided to create a UDF for this.
Here is the code for the UDF.
This UDF simply takes the shipments column, converts it into an integer, and returns it.
If we cannot convert the shipments column to an integer, we return null.
Simple!
Isn't it?
How to use this UDF?
Here is the code.
So I will register the UDF and use it to create a new column with the correct values.
Make sense?
Here is the expected output.
Looks good.
Right?
I replaced the bad values with nulls.
Correct?
But now, I have another requirement.
We also want to count the number of bad records.
How to do it?
Can you think of some solution?
We have an easy way to do it.
I can simply count the nulls in the shipments_int column.
Correct?
We fixed two rows in this dataframe, replacing two bad values with nulls.
So If I count the nulls in the new column, I exactly know the number of bad records.
The solution is perfectly fine.
But count() aggregation or a count() action on a dataframe has a wide dependency.
Spark will add one extra stage and a shuffle operation.
My execution plan looks like this.
So you can see this exchange in my execution plan.
This exchange represents a shuffle that is caused by the count() operation.
And that's not a good thing.
I don't like this shuffle exchange in my plan?
Can I do something else and avoid this shuffle?
I wish I had a global variable to increment it from my UDF while I am fixing the bad record.
And that's precisely what Spark Accumulators are.
Spark Accumulator is a global mutable variable that a Spark cluster can safely update on a per-row basis.
You can use them to implement counters or sums.
Let me show you a complete example.
Here is the code.
I created an accumulator using the spark context with an initial value of zero.
So the bad_rec is an accumulator variable.
Then I use this accumulator variable in my UDF.
Here it is.
So whenever I see a bad record, I will increment the accumulator by one.
That's all.
Super simple.
Right?
Now come back to the end of the program.
This accumulator variable is maintained at the driver.
So I can simply print the final value.
I do not have to collect it from anywhere.
Because the accumulators always live at the driver.
All the tasks will increment the value of this accumulator using internal communication with the driver.
Make sense?
Great!
So I do not have to include an extra stage and a shuffle for calculating the count of bad records.
I am always incrementing it as I discover a bad record.
Make sense?
Let's look at the execution plan.
The first is the old plan with a count(), and the second uses an accumulator variable.
I saved a shuffle and a hash aggregation.
Right?
Great!
So that's one potential use of an accumulator.
You can use accumulators for counting whatever you want to count while processing your data.
They are similar to global counter variables in spark.
But remember a few essential things.
I used the Spark accumulator from inside a withColumn() transformation.
I mean, I used it from inside the UDF, but I am calling the UDF inside the withColumn() transformation.
So effectively, the accumulator is used inside the withColumn() transformation.
Correct?
That's perfectly fine.
But some people use the accumulator from inside an action.
For example, we also have a forEach() method on a PySpark Dataframe.
That's an action.
The forEach() action takes a lambda and applies the lambda function on each row.
You can also use an accumulator from within the forEach() action.
Right?
The point is straight.
You can increment your accumulators from inside a transformation method or from inside an action method.
But it is always recommended to use an accumulator from inside action
and avoid using it from inside a transformation.
Why?
Because Spark gives you a guarantee of accurate results when the accumulator is incremented from inside an action.
We already know, some spark tasks can fail for a variety of reasons.
But the driver will retry those tasks on a different worker assuming success in the retry.
Spark may also trigger a duplicate task if a task is running very slow.
Right?
The point is straight.
Spark runs duplicate tasks in many situations.
So if a task is running 2-3 times on the same data,
it will increment your accumulator multiple times, distorting your counter.
Right?
But if you are incrementing your accumulator from inside an action, Spark guarantees accurate results.
So Spark guarantees that each task's update to the accumulator will be applied only once,
even if the task is restarted.
But if you are incrementing your accumulator from inside a transformation, Spark doesn't give this guarantee.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all about accumulators except two last points.
Spark in Scala also allows you to give your accumulator a name and show them in the Spark UI.
However, PySpark accumulators are always unnamed, and they do not show up in the Spark UI.
Spark allows you to create Long and Float accumulators.
However, you can also create some custom accumulators.
But that part is outside the scope of this course
because accumulators are now used only for a few specific scenarios.
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep growing.

--- Speculative Execution ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I am going to talk about Speculative Execution in Spark.
So let's start.
We already know that Apache Spark runs your application as a set of jobs.
These jobs are broken down into stages, and each stage is executed in parallel tasks.
So a task is the smallest unit of work in Apache Spark.
Right?
Now let's assume your Spark job is running ten tasks.
You looked at the Spark UI and noticed that out of those ten tasks.
All other tasks take almost equal time to complete except one task.
One task takes a much longer time to complete.
However, a Spark job stage is not complete until all the tasks of that stage are complete.
So looking at this diagram, you realized that one task is delaying your stage.
If this task is also completed along with other tasks,
your stage will complete faster, and you can reduce the Spark job execution time.
So what can you do?
One easy thing is to enable Spark Speculative execution.
You can enable it using the following configuration.
By default, Spark speculative execution is set to false.
You can set it to true and enable it.
Once you enable speculative execution,
Spark will automatically identify the slow-running tasks and run a duplicate copy of the same tasks on other nodes.
The idea is to start a copy of the same task on another worker node and see if that runs faster.
This new duplicate task is known as a speculative task.
Now you have two copies of the task.
So Spark will accept the task that finishes first and kill the other task.
These speculative tasks can solve your problem in some cases.
However, speculative tasks are not silver bullets, and they do not solve every slow-running task problem.
They are helpful if and only if the task is slow due to a problem with the worker node.
What does it mean?
Simple!
Your task may be running on a faulty worker node,
performing slowly due to some hardware problem, or struggling with overload.
It could be anything specific to the worker node that is causing your task to run slow.
If we restart that task on a different worker node, it might run faster.
Right?
And that's the main idea behind the Spark speculative task execution.
Spark will automatically identify a slow-running task,
run a duplicate copy of the same on a different worker node, and see if that runs faster.
Finally, Spark will take only one faster task from these two and kill the other one.
However, you should also remember that enabling speculative execution
will start taking some extra resources from your Spark cluster.
Running speculative tasks is an overhead, and in many cases, it might not give you any benefits.
That's why it is disabled by default.
A speculative task cannot help you in the following situation.
If your task is running slow due to a data skew problem
It is slow because the task is struggling with low memory.
Spark doesn't know the root cause of the slow-running task,
and it simply starts a speculative task to see if that one finishes faster.
So be careful before enabling speculative execution.
If you have some extra resources, enabling speculation might be a good thing to do.
Spark also offers you some additional configurations to fine-tune the speculation.
Here are they.
The default value of the speculation interval is 100 ms.
So Spark will check for task slowness and see if a speculative task is needed.
And Spark will perform that check in a 100 ms loop.
The default value of the speculation multiplier is 1.5.
So a task is speculative only if it takes more than 1.5 times the median of other tasks' execution time.
So if the median value of other tasks is 5 seconds,
then a task can be speculative if and only if it takes more than 7.5 seconds.
Make sense?
The third configuration represents a fraction of tasks
that must complete before speculation is enabled for a particular stage.
The default value is 75%.
So if more than 75% of tasks are complete and one task is still struggling,
Spark will consider starting a speculative task.
The next one is the minimum amount of time a task runs before being considered for speculation.
This can be used to avoid launching speculative copies of tasks that are very short.
The last one is a hard limit of task duration, after which the scheduler would try to speculative run the task.
Great!
So Spark understands that the speculation consumes extra resources,
it is a costly solution, and it may not solve the problem of slow-running tasks.
And hence, they offer you a bunch of configurations to fine-tune the speculation
so you can protect yourself from running unnecessary speculative tasks.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all about Spark Speculative execution.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Dynamic Resource Allocation ---

Welcome Back.
In this video, I am going to talk about Spark Scheduler.
So let's start.
When we talk about scheduling in the context of Apache Spark, we mean two things.
Scheduling Across Applications
and Scheduling Within an Application
So let's try to understand the first scenario of scheduling across applications.
Spark is a distributed application, and it runs on a cluster.
Right?
So we submit an application to a cluster.
The cluster manager allocates some resources, and your application starts on the cluster.
What if we submit two applications to the same cluster.
Or what if some other user also submits an application to the same cluster.
The second application will also run on the same cluster.
The point is straight.
At any time, your cluster might be running more than one Spark application.
Right?
So in a typical case, a spark cluster is shared by multiple applications.
But the question is this?
How cluster-manager allocates resources to the Spark application,
and when do they release those resources.
Let me elaborate on it.
Let's assume you have a cluster.
And the maximum capacity of the cluster is to create 100 containers.
So we cannot have more than 100 containers at a time.
Now, you started one application, and the application demands 100 containers.
The resource manager will allocate 100 containers to the first application.
What if we submit another application.
The second application is small, and it needs only five containers.
But we do not have any containers left.
So the second application must wait for some resources to become free.
Right?
That's not efficient.
A small application has to wait for a large application to finish.
And this is an area where Spark offers you some customization so you can better manage your resources.
Let me explain it.
Spark offers you two resource allocation strategies.
Static Allocation
and Dynamic Allocation
These two strategies are not for Cluster Resource managers.
These are for Spark.
They do not have anything to do with the cluster resource manager.
These two approaches define how your application requests resources
and how it releases the resources back to the cluster manager.
Let me explain these two approaches.
The static allocation is the default approach.
In this approach, as soon as your driver starts, it will request executor containers from the cluster resource manager.
The cluster manager gives as many resources as demanded by the driver.
But now, your application will hold all those resources for the entire duration of running the application.
Even if your application is not utilizing them, you will hold them with you.
So the static allocation is a kind of first-come, first reserve approach.
In this approach, the first application will demand resources and reserve them for the entire duration.
These resources are released back to the cluster manager only when the application finishes its execution.
This approach has a problem of resource utilization.
I mean, think about your application.
You created an application that runs five stages.
The first stage requires 400 parallel tasks, the second stage requires 100 parallel tasks,
and all other stages require 200 parallel tasks.
You demanded 100 executors with 4 CPU cores each.
Why?
Because you have a stage that needs to run 400 tasks.
So you need 400 slots, and hence you demanded 100 executors, each with four slots.
Your estimation is correct.
You did the right thing.
But your application runs in five stages.
Only one stage is making good use of 100 executors.
The other four stages are not using all the executors.
Right?
But you are holding all those executors till the end.
That's a problem.
How do we solve it?
That's where dynamic resource allocation comes into play.
Spark offers dynamic resource allocation, and you can enable it using the following configurations.
Dynamic allocation is disabled by default.
But you can enable it to set these two configurations to true.
Once you enable dynamic allocation, your spark application will automatically release the executors
if they are not using it.
Similarly, they can again acquire executors when they are needed.
The resource manager has nothing to do here.
It is the Spark application that demands resources when needed
and releases them if they are not required for the time being.
And your application starts doing it dynamically.
Now let me walk you through the same example.
So you need to run 400 parallel tasks in your first stage.
So you will demand 100 executors.
Right?
The cluster manager will allocate your 100 executors, and you will start running your first stage.
Once you are done with your first stage, you need only 100 slots for the second stage.
Right?
So you will release some executors back to the cluster manager.
Why?
Because you do not need them for the moment.
You finished your second stage with fewer resources.
But now you are into the third stage, and you need more slots.
So your application will again demand more slots and take them from the cluster manager.
The point is straight.
Dynamic allocation is a Spark configuration.
It allows Spark applications to release and demand resources as the requirement changes dynamically.
Make sense?
Great!
You have two more important configurations.
The default value of idle timeout is 60 seconds.
So if an executor is idle and you do not have any task running on an executor for 60 seconds,
your application will release the executor back to the cluster manager.
You can change this configuration, but 60 seconds is a reasonable value for a standard application.
The default value of this backlog timeout is 1 second.
So if you have some pending tasks for more than one second
and do not have any free executor where you can allocate your pending task,
your application will request more executors.
Make sense?
So the first configuration controls the release time for an idle executor.
And the second configuration controls the request time for more executors.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for Spark Dynamic Resource allocation.
So we learned that the cluster manager schedules the Spark application driver,
and resources for running the application are also provided by the resource manager.
Once your application driver starts, it can keep those resources or dynamically release and request them again.
If you have a shared cluster, you should enable dynamic allocation
so your Spark applications can demand and release executors dynamically.
Make sense?
Great!
See you again in the following video.
Keep Learning and Keep growing.

--- Spark Schedulers ---

Welcome Back.
In the earlier video, I talked about the following types of Spark scheduling.
I already explained the first one.
In this video, I will talk about scheduling within a Spark application.
We already know that the Spark application runs multiple jobs.
Within a single Spark application, each of your actions triggers a spark job.
We already learned it.
Right?
In a typical case, these spark jobs run sequentially.
What does it mean?
I mean, the spark will start Job 1 and finish it.
Then only Job 2 starts.
That's what I mean by running Spark jobs in a sequence.
However, you can also trigger them to run parallelly.
Let's try to understand it with an example.
Here is an example code.
What am I doing here?
I am reading two data sets.
The first one is df1, and the second one is df2.
Then I joined d1 with df2 and took the count.
Super simple.
Right?
But I am also doing a similar thing with two more data sets.
I am also reading dataframe df3 and df4.
I am again joining df3 with df4, taking the count, and printing it.
The point is straight.
I am doing two sets of independent operations.
The first set of work will read df1, df2, join them together and trigger a count() action.
Similarly, the second set of work will read df3, df4, join them together and trigger another count action.
These two joins and counts are independent.
The first set of work has nothing to do with the second set of work.
They do not have any dependency on each other.
But my code will run them in a sequence.
Let me run it and show you the jobs.
Here it is.
So we ran six jobs starting from job id zero to job id five.
Now you look at the submitted timestamp.
Job zero started at 16:26:43, and it took 2 seconds to complete.
Job one started two seconds later when job zero finished.
This guy started at 16:26:45, which is exactly two seconds of the run time of the job zero.
If you look at the other jobs, they all started one after the other.
Right?
So Spark will run your jobs in sequential order, one after the other.
Now let's come back to our code.
I have these two independent code blocks.
I prefer to run these two blocks in parallel.
Can we do it?
Yes, we can.
All we have to do is create two parallel threads
and trigger each of these blocks from two different threads.
I have to change the code and implement multithreading in my application.
Here is the new code.
So what am I doing?
I created this do_job function.
This function takes two input parameters.
These parameters are nothing but the data file names.
So I will read the first data file into df1, then the second data file into df2, join these two data frames and count it.
That's what we were doing earlier in two code blocks.
Right?
Now I have a common function for doing that.
Then I come back to my main method and run this loop.
The for loop runs twice.
Every iteration will create one thread.
The target for the thread is the same do_job function.
But I am changing the file names for each iteration.
So we are creating two threads here.
Finally, I will start both the threads and then wait for both the threads to complete.
That's all.
This code is designed to run the do_job function in two different threads,
and both the threads will trigger a count() action.
Right?
Now let me run it and see what happens with my spark jobs.
Here it is.
We still have six jobs starting from job id 0 to job id 5.
But now, things are running in parallel.
Job zero and job one started in parallel at the same time.
Job four and job five also started in parallel at the same time.
So what does it mean?
Your Spark application runs as a set of spark jobs.
Each Spark job represents an action.
You can submit these actions sequentially, or you can also submit these actions using parallel threads.
Right?
But when you run spark jobs in parallel, you have to think about resourcing.
I mean, How will spark allocate executor slots for these parallel jobs?
Because each action or a job runs as a set of parallel tasks.
So each job requires some resources to run multiple tasks in parallel.
When you create a multithreaded spark application to submit two or more parallel jobs,
they all need resources for their corresponding tasks.
Right?
And that causes competition between jobs to acquire resources.
How do we handle it?
This is what we mean by scheduling within an application.
If your application is a single-threaded spark application, you do not worry about the scheduling within the application.
But if you create a multithreaded Spark application
and submit jobs from multiple parallel threads, job scheduling becomes an important part.
So how do we handle it?
Let me explain.
By default, Spark's job scheduler runs jobs in a FIFO fashion.
Each job is divided into stages, and the first job gets priority on all available resources.
So if the first job has some stages and tasks, it will consume as many resources as needed.
Then the second job gets priority.
So the point is straight.
If the jobs at the queue head don't need to use some resources, the next job can start to run.
But if the jobs at the head of the queue are large, then later jobs may be delayed significantly.
However, you can change the FIFO scheduler and configure spark to use the FAIR schedular.
Here is the configuration.
Under fair sharing, Spark assigns tasks between jobs in a round-robin fashion.
What does it mean?
Simple!
Assign one task in a slot from the first job, then assign one task in a slot from the second job, and so on.
In this approach, no parallel jobs will be waiting for resources,
and all get a roughly equal share of cluster resources.
Make sense?
Great!
Once you enable FAIR schedular, you can see the list of fair scheduler pools in your spark UI.
Here is an example screenshot.
You can see it here.
We are using the FAIR schedular default pool.
And within the pool, we have a FIFO schedular.
You can go further down to create and configure multiple pools within the FAIR schedular,
but that may not be necessary.
Fair schedular with default pool works well enough.
Great!
That's all about the job scheduling in Apache Spark.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep growing.

--- Unit Testing in Spark ---

Welcome Back.
This lecture will teach you to create unit test cases for your Spark application.
So let's start.
Start your PyCharm IDE and create a new Spark project.
I will also choose the option to create a main.py welcome script.
Let's create it.
So here we are with a brand new project.
I will create a small Spark project and then implement unit testing.
Why am I using PyCharm to create a Spark project?
Why not use a notebook environment?
Can we not do unit testing on the notebook environment?
We can do that.
But doing unit testing on Databricks notebook is a little tricky.
I will show you that also in the end.
But writing unit test cases for your application makes more sense in the local environment.
So let's learn how to do it in your local environment, and then we will take the same to the notebook environment.
Make sense?
Great!
So let's create a Spark application, and then we will implement unit testing.
Right-click on your project name,
go to new,
and create a python package.
Let's name it lib.
Done.
This will create a lib folder.
Right-click the lib folder,
again go to new, and create a python file.
Give a name to it
Great!
So I created a Python library.
I will create two functions in the library.
So open your transformations file and create two functions.
The first function will read a data file, create a dataframe and return it.
The second function takes a dataframe as input.
Then it will apply some transformations to the dataframe and return the result.
Make sense?
Great!
But what am I doing?
I am developing my application using a modular structure.
I have this transformations library which defines two business functions.
My main application will use these functions to implement the requirement.
So let me go to the main.py file.
Delete everything and recreate the application main.
Looks nice.
Correct?
Do you understand what I am doing?
I am importing those two functions I created in the lib/transformations.
Then I create a Spark session.
I am taking the data file name from the command line argument.
Once I have the data file name, I call the load_survey_df() function to load the data file and create a dataframe.
Then I call count_by_country to transform the data and get the results.
Finally, I am showing the results.
I could have written all the code in the main method itself.
But I decided to take a modular approach and implement everything as functions.
Then call those functions from the main.
And this is how we develop real applications.
We implement functions and then use them.
This approach also allows us to do unit testing.
Right?
So in this example, I have two functions: load_survey_df and count_by_country.
These two guys are my two units.
So I can test these two guys and implement unit testing.
Right?
For unit testing, I need sample data.
Testing is not done on large volumes of data.
We always perform unit testing on some controlled well defined test data.
So let me add some test data to the project.
Right-click your project,
go to new, and create a directory.
Name it as test_data.
Now I will paste the sample.csv file into this directory.
Here it is.
You can see the file contents.
We have ten lines in the file; the first line is a header row.
Let me close it and come back to the main.
Great!
So we have a Spark application.
I can package it and deploy it on the cluster.
When I want to run it on large volumes of data, I will pass the data file location from the command line.
The application will read the data file and run on large volumes of data.
I am done.
But what about unit testing?
I have two functions in this application.
So as a best practice, I must implement unit test cases for those two functions.
Right?
Let's do it.
Right-click your project,
go to new, and create a python file.
But this time, we will choose the Python unit test.
Give a name to your unit test file
Great!
So we have a unit test starter file.
By default, Python will use the unit test framework.
There are many other unit testing frameworks.
For example, PyTest is another unit testing framework.
You can choose a suitable unit testing framework as per your project mandate.
However, the default unittest framework is good enough, and we will use the same.
We already have some starter codes here.
But let me delete everything and create everything from scratch.
So I imported everything from the unittest package.
I am also importing SparkSession because we need it.
Then I import the two functions that I want to test.
Then I will create a test class.
I assume you already know Python and how to create unit tests in Python.
If not, I recommend you go through our Just Enough Python course.
We covered unit testing in our Just enough Python course.
Anyways.
So we have the test class now.
The next step is to create a Spark session.
And the best place to create the Spark session is the setUpClass() method.
So let me define a Spark session.
Done.
I created a spark session so we can run some spark code.
What is next?
I want to test two functions.
So I will write two test cases.
Let me implement the first one.
Great!
So I created test_datafile_loading() method.
This method will call the load_survey_df() function and create the sample_df.
Then I want to validate if the load_survey_df is working as expected.
How Do I validate?
One approach is to count the number of rows in the sample_df and check if I have 9 records in the result.
Why nine?
Because I know it.
The test data has nine records.
So If the load_survey_df() is working correctly, it must have loaded nine records.
And that's what I am doing here.
Count the records, and assert if we have nine records.
That's all.
My first test case is done.
Let's create another test case for the second function.
Done.
What am I doing?
I will call the load_survey_df() and create the sample_df.
Then I will call the count_by_country() and collect the records in the count_list.
Why?
Because I want to test if the count_by_country() is working as expected.
So I will call the count_by_country() and collect the result.
Then I will convert the count_list into the count dictionary.
Converting a list into a dictionary is a common practice for unit testing.
Why?
Because a dictionary is a key/value pair.
I can easily refer to a key and get the value for validation.
And that's what I am doing in the following three lines.
I know that if the count_by_country() worked as expected,
it should give 4 for the United States, Canada should be 2, and the United Kingdom count is 1.
And that's what I am asserting in the last three lines.
Make sense?
That's all.
Do you want to run it?
Go to the top
and click the run button.
Worked.
You can see the message: Tests passed 2 of 2 tests.
Great!
Now let's see how you can do a similar thing on the notebook environment.
Let me go to my data bricks workspace.
I will create a new notebook
Then I will paste two of my functions into this notebook.
That's all.
We are done.
I created a library in the earlier setup.
Right?
And this notebook represents my library.
Now create a new notebook
This one is my main.
So I will import my functions from the transformations notebook.
How to do it?
Here it is.
The %run is the same as the import
When we want to import our functions from the notebook, we will be using %run.
This command will not run the notebook.
It will simply import all the functions from the given notebook.
Now I can implement the main logic.
That's all, right?
Do you want to run it?
Run it once and check if things are working fine.
Great!
I can see the output, so it is working.
But what about the unit testing?
Let's create a new notebook
and implement test cases in a separate notebook.
The first step is to import the functions.
Done.
That's how we import functions from another notebook.
Right?
I also have some other imports.
Let me do that.
I need the unittest package, and I also need Spark Session.
So I am importing both.
What is next?
We can copy-paste our test class.
Let me do it.
I have made one change here.
I changed the test data file location.
The local environment can read from the project file.
However, the notebook will read data from the DBFS location.
So I copied the sample.csv in a DBFS location and changed the path accordingly.
That's all.
The rest of the code is the same as earlier.
Now we are ready to perform unit testing.
But this is a notebook environment.
If you run this cell, it will define the test class.
It will not run the test cases.
The PyCharm IDE allows us to run the test cases using a run button.
But the notebook will not do the same.
We have to write some extra code for running the test cases.
So let me do it.
I defined another function here.
This function will create a test suite.
The TestSuite is also part of the unit test framework.
The code is simple.
I am creating an empty test suite.
Then I am adding my two test cases to the TestSuite.
These are nothing but the test functions in my test class.
Correct.
That's all.
Now we can run this test suit.
Let me write code to run it.
That's all.
I create a TextTestRunner and use it to run the TestSuite.
Let me run it and show you.
Worked.
And that's all.
So in the lecture, we learned to organize our project into smaller functions.
So we can write unit test cases for our functions.
Then we learned to write and run test cases in the local environment
and implement them in the notebook environment.
That's all.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep growing.

--- Lets Practice - Quiz 3 Solution Video ---

Welcome Back.
So you practiced one set of Spark Applied Understanding questions.
Let's look at those questions in detail.
I will go through each question and evaluate all the options.
We will select the correct answer and also understand why other options are incorrect.
In between, I will try to recall your knowledge about Spark Applied Understanding.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's start with the first question.
Which of the following describes a shuffle?
We talked about the shuffle in several videos earlier.
Let's see what options do we have.
A shuffle is a process by which data is compared across partitions.
Okay!
This statement is not straightforward.
Let's try to analyze it.
The shuffle has two parts.
The first part is to repartition the data using the key and keep it in the write exchange of the stage.
Correct?
This step is known as map side repartitioning.
The second part of the shuffle is to redistributed this partitioned data
from the write exchange to the read exchange of the next stage.
This step is known as partition aggregation at the reduce side of the shuffle.
In both of these processes, we must compare the data so we can repartition it.
My answer talks about comparing data across partitions.
So I can consider it a correct statement.
Though it is not as straightforward and clear, so I will keep this option as possibly correct,
but I will see other options if I can find a better one.
So let's move on to the next.
A shuffle is a process by which data is compared across executors.
Well! this option is not correct.
They are talking about comparing data, but shuffle has nothing to do with the executors.
So we leave this one and move to the next option.
A shuffle is a process by which partitions are allocated to tasks.
No!
That's not correct.
The shuffle is repartitioning the data using a key.
Let's go to the next.
A shuffle is a process by which partitions are ordered for write.
What does that mean?
They are talking about ordering or sorting partitions for a write operation.
Shuffle has nothing to do with the write operation.
Let's look at the next one.
A shuffle is a process by which tasks are ordered for execution.
This one is also rubbish.
So it looks like the first one is the correct statement.
This question is full of confusing statements.
But we can't do anything because the exam is supposed to throw some confusing statements.
Our job is to analyze the question carefully and pick up the best answer.
Great!
Let's go to the next question.
DataFrame df is very large with a large number of partitions, more than there are executors in the cluster.
So we have a large number of partitions, and they are more than the number of executors.
That's normal, and it happens most of the time.
You may have 32 executors but more than 100 partitions.
Right?
Let's read further.
Based on this situation, which of the following is incorrect?
Assume there is one core per executor.
Okay.
So let's try finding out the incorrect statement.
The performance will be suboptimal because not all executors will be utilized at the same time.
That's incorrect.
Why?
Suppose I have 32 executors, each having one core.
So I will have 32 slots.
But I have 100 partitions.
So Spark will allocate one partition each to all 32 slots.
Right?
I am not wasting my slots.
All slots are occupied most of the time.
So this statement is incorrect.
But let me read the next one also.
The performance will be suboptimal because not all data can be processed at the same time.
That's correct.
I have 100 partitions and only 32 slots.
So not all data can be processed in parallel, and my job will take longer.
But we wanted to find the incorrect statement.
And we already found that.
Right?
Let me quickly read the remaining options.
There will be a large number of shuffle connections performed on DataFrame df
when operations inducing a shuffle are called.
That's fine.
A large number of partitions means a large number of shuffle connections to read data from the exchange.
So we are correct here.
There will be a lot of overhead associated with managing resources for data processing within each task.
Yes!
That's also correct.
We cannot process all data in parallel because we have fewer executors and more partitions.
So we have to wait until a slot is vacant and load the new partition into the slot when the previous one is complete.
And that's the overhead they are talking about.
So this one is also correct.
There might be a risk of out-of-memory errors depending on the size of the executors in the cluster.
Well! The risk of OOM exception is always there.
So nothing incorrect here.
Great!
Let's go to next.
Which of the following operations will trigger evaluation?
Great!
This question is trying to confuse us, calling it evaluation instead of action.
The evaluation means an action.
So the correct answer is DataFrame.count().
That's the only action here, and all others are transformations.
Let's go to next.
Which of the following describes the difference between transformations and actions?
Okay!
Let's look at the options.
Transformations work on DataFrames/Datasets while actions are reserved for native language objects.
That's rubbish.
I don't even want to explain it.
Let me read the next one.
There is no difference between actions and transformations.
That's nonsense again.
If there is no difference, then why do we have two different things?
Actions are business logic operations that do not induce execution,
while transformations are execution triggers focused on returning results.
Aah!
This is precisely the opposite of the correct definition.
Actions are the execution triggers, and transformations are the business logic operations.
Right?
Let me read the next one.
Actions work on DataFrames/Datasets, while transformations are reserved for native language objects.
No! This one is also false.
Transformations are business logic operations that do not induce execution,
while actions are execution triggers focused on returning results.
Great!
That's the correct one.
Actions are the execution triggers, and transformations are the business logic operations.
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following DataFrame operations is always classified as a narrow transformation?
This is an easy one.
You can see the DataFrame.select(), and that one is always narrow.
Let's move on.
Which of the following describes out-of-memory errors in Spark?
Okay!
An out-of-memory error occurs when either the driver
or an executor does not have enough memory to collect or process the data allocated to it.
Perfect!
That's correct.
You can get an OOM exception from the driver or the executor.
In both cases, it comes because they do not have enough memory.
Right?
What are the other options?
It must be incorrect.
An out-of-memory error occurs when Spark's storage level is too lenient
and allows data objects to be cached to memory and disk.
No.
They are trying to confuse us.
Out of memory never comes for caching or storage.
It is always caused by a lack of executor memory.
An out-of-memory error occurs when there are more tasks
than are executors regardless of the number of worker nodes.
This one is also false.
If we have more tasks than the executors, then my task will wait for executors to become available.
They will not throw an OOM exception.
An out-of-memory error occurs when the Spark application calls too many transformations in a row
without calling an action regardless of the size of the data object on which the transformations are operating.
No! This is also not correct.
You can call as many transformations as you need.
Calling more transformations is not the root cause of OOM.
An out-of-memory error occurs when too much data is allocated to the driver for computational purposes.
Well!
OOM at the driver comes when too much data is collected at the driver.
But data is never processed by the driver.
So this statement is incorrect because it talks about computational purpose at the driver.
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following is the default storage level for persist() for a non-streaming DataFrame/Dataset?
Good question.
If you look at the latest PySpark documentation, the default value of persistence is the
MEMORY_AND_DISK_DESER.
However, as per scala documentation, the default value is MEMORY_AND_DISK.
But internally, the MEMORY_AND_DISK_DESER in PySpark is the same as MEMORY_AND_DISK in Scala.
So you can choose MEMORY_AND_DISK as a correct answer.
If you don't see the MEMORY_AND_DISK, but you are seeing MEMORY_AND_DISK_DESER,
you can choose that one.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's go to next.
Which of the following describes a broadcast variable?
That's an outdated question.
Broadcast variables were used during the RDD days.
But now, we do not use broadcast variables with DataFrames.
So I am not expecting a question on the broadcast variable, but you never know.
However, you should not confuse the broadcast variables with the broadcast hash joins.
We still use broadcast hash joins, and that's different from the broadcast variable.
Okay!
Let's try to find the correct answer.
A broadcast variable is a Spark object that needs to be partitioned onto multiple worker nodes
because it's too large to fit on a single worker node.
That's incorrect.
A broadcast variable is never partitioned, it is broadcasted as it is to all the worker nodes.
A broadcast variable can only be created by an explicit call to the broadcast() operation.
That's also incorrect.
The broadcast hash join also creates a broadcast variable.
And that's why we call it broadcast join.
A broadcast variable is entirely cached on the driver node, so it doesn't need to be present on any worker nodes.
That's not correct.
The driver will broadcast the broadcast variable, but it is cached at the worker node.
The driver does not cash it.
A broadcast variable is entirely cached on each worker node,
so it doesn't need to be shipped or shuffled between nodes with each stage.
That's perfectly correct, and that's the purpose of the broadcast.
We broadcast the value to all worker nodes to avoid shuffle.
A broadcast variable is saved to the disk of each worker node to be easily read into memory when needed.
No.
It is cached in the memory, and it should be small enough to fit in the memory.
Make sense?
Great!
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following operations is most likely to induce a skew in the size of your data's partitions?
That's a great question.
Let's go one by one on the options.
The first one is the DataFrame.collect().
The collect() method sends data from the executors to the driver.
So, in that case, all the partitions from all the executors will go to a single driver.
Right?
There aren't any partitioning, so new skewed partitions.
Make sense?
Okay, the next one is DataFrame.cache().
The cache() method will bring data to spark memory and keep it there.
The cache() method doesn't alter the existing partitions, so it cannot induce a skew.
The next one is DataFrame.repartition(n).
The repartition can induce a skew if you are repartitioning your data using a key or column.
But repartition(n) is to create N uniform partitions.
So this guy is also safe, and it cannot induce a skew.
The next one is DataFrame.coalesce(n), and that one is the culprit.
The coalesce(n) will merge local partitions at the data node.
It doesn't cause a shuffle but only takes locally available partitions and merges them.
So think of the following situation.
You have three data nodes.
The first data node has ten equal local partitions,
the second has only five local but equal partitions, and the third has only one local partition.
You are doing coalesce(5).
What will happen?
Spark will merge ten partitions at the first data node and create two partitions.
The second data node will also create two partitions merging five into two.
The last one will have only one partition because there is less than what you asked for.
So what did you do?
You created a skew.
Right?
So DataFrame.coalesce(n) always presents a danger of causing a skew, and that's your correct answer.
Even repartition() on a column or a key may cause a skew.
But this question is asking about repartition(n), which will always cause a shuffle and create uniform n partitions.
So repartition(n) cannot induce a skew.
The last one is DataFrame.persist() which is the same as DataFrame.cache().
So the persist will also not cause skew.
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following data structures is Spark DataFrames built on top of?
Well. This one is the easiest.
The correct answer is the RDD.
Spark DataFrames are built on top of Spark RDDs.
LEt's go to the next question.
In general, Spark creates one Spark Job for one action.
That's a true-false question, and the answer is true.
Some spark actions such as show() or read() may cause multiple Spark Jobs.
But most of the other actions will cause one Spark job.
Make sense?
Great!
That's all for this video.
See you again in the following quiz.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.

--- Lets Practice - Quiz 4 Solution Video ---

Welcome Back.
So you practiced another set of Spark Applied Understanding questions.
Let's look at those questions in detail.
I will go through each question and evaluate all the options.
We will select the correct answer and also understand why other options are incorrect.
In between, I will try to recall your knowledge about Spark Applied understanding.
Make sense?
Great! Let's start with the first question.
Setting spark.speculation to true will
Okay.
So this one should be an easy question.
They are asking what is the use of spark.speculation configuration.
Let's see the answers.
The first one says, kill the slow running task and restart it on another node.
That's incorrect.
Spark speculation starts a duplicate copy of the task without killing the current one.
The killing of the task happens when one of them finishes.
Spark keeps the one who finishes first and kills the slower one. Right?
Let's check out the next option.
Re-launch one or more tasks if they are running slowly in a stage.
That's correct.
Spark speculation will re-launch one or more tasks if they are running very slow.
So we found our answer.
But let me check the other options.
restart the task when it is running slow
That's incorrect.
Spark speculation doesn't restart the same task.
It starts a new duplicate copy of the slow task.
What is next?
Fail fast if the Spark job is running slow and utilize the resources for other jobs.
That's not correct.
And it doesn't even relate to Spark speculation.
Anyways, let's move to the next question.
spark.memory.fraction is used for
That's a good question.
Let me read out the answers.
Setting the percentage of memory used for caching and propagating internal data across the cluster.
That's incorrect.
The memory fraction is used to reserve the percentage of memory execution and storage pool combined.
It has nothing to do with the chaining and propagation of data.
Let's read the next option.
Fraction of (heap space - 300MB) used for execution and storage pools.
That's the correct answer.
We already learned this in spark memory management. Right?
The other two options must be incorrect.
But let me read it.
Expressing the total memory used by the spark task
That's not correct.
The default value of spark.memory.fraction is 60%, so it can't be total. Right?
The last one says - Memory reserved for Spark executor
That's also incorrect
because it is just 60%, and the remaining 40% is the user memory which is also used by the spark executor.
Anyways, we have already found the correct answer.
Let's go to the next question.
Which of the following describe optimizations enabled by adaptive query execution (SELECT TWO)?
Good, let's see the options.
AQE performs dynamic partition pruning.
Nope.
AQE and DPP are two different things.
AQE optimizes skewed partitions before the shuffle
That's incorrect.
AQE optimization is based on the statistics collected at the time of shuffle.
So it cannot perform any optimization before the shuffle.
AQE attempts to convert sort-merge join to broadcast join
That's correct.
Converting sort-merge to broadcast is one of the three AQE optimizations.
AQE performes coalescing post-shuffle partitions
This one is also correct.
AQE optimizes the number of shuffle partitions by coalescing them.
And this is done on the reduce-side of the shuffle operation after the shuffle has taken place.
Right?
Let's go to the next question.
The idea behind dynamic partition pruning (DPP) is to skip over the data you don't need in a query's results.
This optimization technique works best in which scenario.
Another good question.
Let's go through the options.
Applying filter conditions on your join key
Well, DPP works best in scenarios where you have one large table and a small table in the join.
The large table must be partitioned, and the small table should apply a broadcast.
That is all.
It doesn't care about the filter condition.
You can apply filters to any column.
It could be a join column or could be any other column.
It doesn't matter for the DPP.
So this option is incorrect.
Let's read the next option.
Joining fact and dimension tables
That's a perfect statement.
DPP works best for joining fact and dimension.
So this one is the correct answer.
Let's quickly check the other options.
Applying a join between two large tables
This option is incorrect, and we have already discussed it.
DPP needs one small table which can go for a broadcast.
So two large tables is an incorrect answer.
Applying filter conditions on a partitioned table.
This one is also incorrect.
I already talked about it.
DPP doesn't have anything to do with the filtering.
Even if you do not apply any filter, Spark can still apply dynamic partition pruning.
Great! Let's go to the next question.
Inside a given Spark application (SparkContext instance),
multiple parallel Spark jobs can run simultaneously if they were submitted from separate threads.
What is the default scheduler used for scheduling Spark Jobs?
This one is super easy. Right?
Spark uses FIFO as a default job schedular. Right?
We can change it to use FAIR schedular, but the default one is FIFO.
Great! Let's move to the next question.
What optimization happens in Spark
when the property spark.sql.optimizer.dynamicPartitionPruning.enabled  is set to true?
Great! So this one is another Spark DPP question.
Let's see the options.
It allows you to dynamically select a physical query plan based on the cost.
Well, if they were asking about AQE,
I could consider this option a correct statement
because AQE modifies the physical query plan at runtime depending on the shuffle statistics.
But this is not true for DPP.
Dynamic partition pruning simply injects a subquery to apply the partition pruning.
So this statement is incorrect.
Let's see the next option.
Spark will generate subquery/predicate for partition column
when it's used as join key to allow you to read-only required data partitions.
That's correct.
DPP generates a subquery and injects it into the large table scan to eliminate partitions.
So this statement is correct.
What is next?
Spark will dynamically select the partitioning strategy
That's incorrect.
DPP is nothing to do with the partition strategy.
It is partition pruning, not partition strategy. Right?
Spark dynamically handles skew in sort-merge join by splitting skewed partitions.
Well, this is an AQE feature.
But the question is about the DPP.
So this one is also incorrect.
Let's move to the next question.
What happens when different join strategy hints are specified on both sides of a join.
I talked about this in a video. Right?
Spark will always give high priority to broadcast.
So the second statement is correct.
All other options are incorrect.
What are the main considerations in tuning memory usage in your Spark application (SELECT TWO)?
Okay.
So Spark tuning is a vast topic, and there are many considerations, and they depend on the scenario.
But this question wants you to choose the most obvious one.
So let me read the options.
Spark automatically tunes the memory usage.
That's incorrect.
Spark implements some intelligent memory allocation techniques
for assigning memory to different tasks within a single executor.
But that doesn't mean it automatically tunes the memory usage.
Check the overhead of garbage collection.
Okay.
So they are suggesting we check for the garbage collection overhead and try to optimize it.
And that's a good memory usage tuning approach for the Spark developers.
So I will mark this one as a correct statement.
Check the amount of memory used by your objects
This one also looks like the correct thing to do.
I mean, you can check the amount of memory used by your objects
and accordingly increase or decrease the memory.
That's what the tuning means. Right?
So tuning memory means understanding the different components of memory
and seeing where you have less memory and which portion has more than what we need.
And then you tune it or configure it to the optimum levels.
Make Sense?
Great! What is the last option?
Increase the executor memory to avoid memory problems
Well, that's like a blind approach.
You can increase the memory to solve the problem.
But blindly increasing the memory may not be a good idea, and in some cases, it might create new problems.
So I will not mark it correct.
Good.
Let's go to the next question.
Spark dynamically handles skew in sort-merge join by splitting skewed partitions.
Which configuration is used to enable this feature (SELECT TWO)?
That's a simple question. Isn't it?
They are talking about AQE. Right?
But we need to select two configurations.
And you already learned it.
The first thing is to enable the AQE and the second thing is to enable skew-join optimization.
So option two and option three are the correct answers.
The other two configurations are invalid, and they don't even exist. Right?
Great! Let's go to the next question.
Spark Query optimization technique that simplifies tuning of shuffle partition number is known as
Simple one. Isn't it?
Tuning the number of shuffle partitions is the feature of AQE.
We learned about three Spark adaptive query execution features,
and dynamically determining the best value for the shuffle partition is one of those.
Right?
Great! That's all for this video.
See you again.
Keep Learning and Keep Growing.
