

=== Introduction ===


--- Course Introduction ---

Hello and welcome to my course on TerraForm for Beginners using a Google Cloud platform.
So let's see what our journey is throughout this whole course and how you can take a benefit of it depending
on your prior knowledge, where you can start it, where some of the things you can always skip.
So there are whole course I have divided into three different parts.
One is like an introduction about the course and some of the things related to infrastructure as a code.
A traditional IT processes what is TerraForm and how to install this terraform.
So I would consider it as a very first part of the course.
Now, in this course, I will provide you a course material where a complete part of this particular
course I will attach with this particular video, plus all the code which we are going to write for
TerraForm script.
I will provide it at this level so you can download it from here.
Okay, Next one will be a TerraForm Basics and it's installation.
So installation we have already done.
We can take it one step ahead from here and all those basic stuff required for TerraForm to get started
like a init plan.
Apply local file, random provider dependency, multiple provider variable lifecycle rule provider version.
So all those things a bare minimum basic stuff required to get started with your first resource creation
inside the Google Cloud platform we are going to learn from here.
Then comes a third part or I would say a second half of the course where we are actually going to get
real hands on journey to create a infrastructure inside the Google Cloud platform.
So first section, we are going to connect this terraform to Google Cloud platform with various matters
like username and password through cloud shell, virtual machine or through service account.
Anyhow, the third way, which is the preferred one which we are going to continue throughout this whole
course.
Okay.
Afterwards, once everything has been set up, we are going to continue with the different Google cloud
services like cloud storage, networking, compute.
We have a cloud run cloud function, BigQuery Pub sub, some relational database infrastructure creation
and NoSQL database creation.
Now for all these services.
First, I will explain you about what these services are, although we are not going to detail about
those services because as this is not a Google Cloud platform course for that, you can always refer
to my other Google Cloud certification course, although I'll try to give you some basic idea for what
this particular product and service has been created.
Next one, the same service infrastructure we are going to create through cloud console.
So we are going to begin our journey of cloud console from here.
So through this cloud console, we'll try to see majority of all.
Products.
How to create an infrastructure for it.
And afterwards we'll try to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
All right.
So this is close to around 7 to 8 hours.
Of course, you can always.
Sit in a three different session and you can try to complete it.
But I would highly suggest you during this whole course, after watching this video, try to implement
every single thing yourself so you will get a practical hands on about it.
Try to add more and more parameter in your TerraForm script.
Even if I have added it or not, try to modify some parameter and try to see the behavior.
All right, everyone.
So that is all about the course introduction.
What we are going to cover in this course and I'm very much excited.
So from the next section, we are just simply going to dive into is TerraForm and installation.
If you are not interested in this particular process, you can directly jump to the TerraForm basics.
All right, everyone, I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Udemy Tips ---

So before we dive into course, some Udemy related tips I want to give you.
So there are three things I want to discuss here.
One is video player playback, speed, video quality and feedback during the course.
So I'm inside one of my course, so I do speak very much slowly.
So if you think that you can go always faster.
Then on a bottom left corner there is a playback rate.
You can always increase from 1 to 1.25 x up to two x And if you feel that I am too fast for you, and
if you are not able to follow, you can always decrease playback speed from 0.75 x to 0.5 x.
On the right hand side there is a video streaming quality.
I would highly suggest you to watch all those videos in a at least 720p format.
So everything visible very much clearly all lecture I have uploaded in an HD quality video only and
at the end I want to discuss about the feedbacks and reviews.
So at some point during the course Udemy will ask you about your experience in a course.
Now this ratings are important as a instructor to me also and as a student to other people also.
So based on your experience during the course, you can always give the rating in a form of 1 to 5 star,
and after providing rating, you can always give some tax that what you like about the course and what
I can improve about the course.
If you are still not ready to give your review, you can always click on Ask Me later.
Button reviews will motivate me and help me to create more and more content.


=== IAC, Terraform & Installation ===


--- Download Course Material ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Terraform Basics & Installation ===


--- Traditional IT process & Problems ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So let's get started.
Our journey on TerraForm by understanding the flow of traditional IT workflow.
So here in this video, we'll learn about how application development life cycle works in a traditional
IT sense.
So very first thing is business always create a requirement of very, very high level requirement.
What are the features needs to be added to your application?
Then the role of a business analyst come into picture who converts your requirement into some kind of
very high level technical detail.
Next thing is either cloud architect or a tech lead.
Kind of.
Senior technical person will create a infrastructure design that What are the resources you require
for provisioning inside the cloud or in your data center?
If you require a more hardware, definitely you need to contact a procurement team.
Now buying new hardware in a data center may take weeks to months because you are running your application
in your own data center.
Then comes a infrastructure team who is actually going to provision this hardware, and afterwards this
development team will be handed over to start working on a different application.
So this is a typical flow business.
Create requirement, be a business analyst, convert your requirement into technical detail, cloud
architect or a technical leader.
A senior technical person will create infrastructure design.
If you require more hardware, you need to contact this procurement team.
Then infrastructure team will create infrastructure or provision hardware inside the either in your
data center or in your some public cloud.
Then comes a time where we started working on an application.
Now this flow has a very, very slow app deployment cycle.
It's expensive also, and it has a scaling issue also because it's not like a public cloud that it is
highly elastic in nature.
If you need more hardware, you need to wait for weeks or even two months or so.
And there are lots of teams are involved throughout this complete life cycle.
So definitely human error will be involved.
So you need to overcome above issue public cloud provider is the best solution.
Now there are a lot of public cloud providers are available as of now.
Three major ones are AWS, GCP and Azure.
Our focus in this particular course is infrastructure provisioning inside the GCP with TerraForm.
So we'll be learning about everything from the GCP perspective.
In cloud.
This resource provisioning is very much fast from months to meet in a matter of weeks or within a matter
of days.
If the budget has been allocated, you can immediately create those resources.
And this public cloud provider will manage everything for you.
So now you can see compared to your traditional IT workflow, which you are doing with your own data
center, going to public cloud is a great solution.
Now how we are going to interact with the cloud.
So either you can use website like a cloud console or a portal through which you can interact with.
So compared to your traditional flow of infrastructure provisioning.
This is definitely much better solution.
Within a matter of few clicks, you can provision, let's say a virtual machine inside the cloud, but
it is good enough if you are managing a limited resource.
Let's say you are just managing five different virtual machines.
That's good enough.
But let's say you need to manage a thousands of different resources.
In that case, this click based approach will not be a good solution.
So there is another way to interact with a public cloud with programmatically way like API application
programming interface.
So you write your code in a Python, Java or any kind of shell script.
And for Google or AWS or Azure provides SDK in majority of all programming languages to interact with
their cloud.
Now different team, write a different script for this resource provisioning like a Google already provides
Python SDK to interact with the Google Cloud Java SDK for Google Cloud.
But again, this different team is going to write the script different way, although internally they
are using the same API, but definitely a code is different, so there is no unique approach.
Either you go with this way or you go with this way.
So we need some unifying approach which solves the problem.
Now every different organization try to solve the same problem to interact with this Google Cloud or
Azure Cloud or AWS and trying to solve the same problem, but a different, different way.
So why to do same thing again and again by the different people.
So there comes a some common unifying approach.
So we are looking for some unifying approach or language, some kind of tool for infrastructure provisioning
inside the cloud.
And there comes there are a lot of options are available, like a Docker puppet, Ansible, TerraForm
Packer.
We are going to focus here on TerraForm, a unique approach to provision, a infrastructure inside the
cloud, and that is also from the Google Cloud platform perspective.
So that is the journey from your traditional workflow to the cloud and inside the cloud.
Also how you are going to approach or interact with your cloud with one of the most easiest and one
of the most hot tool currently available for the infrastructure provisioning inside the cloud or TerraForm
with Google Cloud platform.
All right, everyone.
So now we are going to learn in the next section about IAC infrastructure as a code and the TerraForm.
So I'll catch you in the next video.


=== Terraform with Google Cloud ===


--- Terraform - Infrastructure as Code ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
In this video, we'll get our journey one step ahead from.
Where we started a traditional IT workflow to cloud to the public cloud, and now we have landed up.
For learning about the TerraForm infrastructure provisioning tool.
So IAC infrastructure as a code.
So here you are, provisioning your resources inside the Google Cloud or any other public cloud using
just the code.
So either you create a, let's say, shell script, Python script for creating a virtual machine.
So that is nothing.
But you are creating infrastructure as a code, but writing and maintaining such a code which you have
written inside the Shell script or Python script will be a very much tedious task.
So let's say you want to create some kind of virtual machine inside the, let's say, Google Cloud platform.
So you write a script inside the Shell script, like a create network, wait for about step to finish
because this step is not finished.
You just kind of go ahead for creating a subnet, then create a firewall, then wait for about step
to again, finish and then actually create the compute engine instance with all parameters, maybe some
default parameters.
So maintaining such a code with shell script or even Python script, it's a tedious task.
And there comes.
But they're often a unique approach to interact with a multiple cloud providers.
So here you can see a lot of things.
TerraForm will take care.
So it has its own unique hashicorp programming language, or I would say hashicorp configuration language
where in a very neat fashion you will write a code.
Which manages everything like creating network creating subnet firewall.
Its dependency between the two different resources.
He will wait for one resource to complete before start provisioning the next resource so everything
you do not need to take care.
As the name here itself suggests that it's a hashicorp configuration language at scale.
So here you just need to provide a configuration and with those configuration it will create a resource
inside the public cloud.
So, TerraForm.
TerraForm here we have shown just the one single example how we write the code.
Now let's get in a much more detail about what TerraForm is and slowly we'll move towards a complete
hands on and a complete picture of TerraForm.
So TerraForm is one of the most popular tool currently available in the market for infrastructure provisioning.
It's a completely free of cost and it's open source.
It is being developed by Hashicorp organization.
Now, through this TerraForm, it's a quick and easy way to get started with just one single binary
file.
Simple.
You just download a single binary file depending on from which operating system you are going to execute
your TerraForm script and just simply start working on it.
You can master this hashicorp configuration language in a short span of time, so for different cloud
vendors like Azure or AWS, you do not need to write code differently.
Once you master about the SQL, you can write code for anywhere.
Now TerraForm has a multiple providers are available like Azure, AWS, Google and there are many more
are available.
And this Hashicorp organization work closely with this major cloud provider.
To add more and more advanced features inside this hashicorp configuration language and its provider.
Apart from this public cloud, there are a lot of other providers are available for network provisioning,
for DNS provisioning, firewall creation, database maintenance, database creation, and you write
all this configuration inside the SQL or Json.
Now definitely Json is not a preferred one.
SQL is the preferred one, and this TerraForm is a Agentless tool.
Now what does it mean?
Agent Less tool.
If you compare any other tool like a Ansible.
So Ansible gets installed in every single machine.
Let's say inside the Google Cloud platform, you create some virtual machine.
Okay, so this is the VM inside the.
Google Cloud platform you have created.
Now here you are not going to install TerraForm anywhere, just like a SQL.
So it's not a configuration tool, but it works well with Ansible also.
So it's an infrastructure provisioning tool.
It's not a configuration tool.
You are not going to change the configuration of individual virtual machine.
Instead, it will help you to create this infrastructure very much easily.
Now TerraForm is a Idempotent.
Now what does it mean here?
Idempotent Let's say you write a script in a python or something in a SQL script to create some virtual
machine inside the Google Cloud platform.
You run this script three times, so definitely three resource will be created and it is going to cost
you three times.
Maybe you will get even fired also after creating three resource.
Instead, you just need a one single resource only for your app deployment.
Now, let's say equivalent code, you are going to write in a SQL script.
For TerraForm to create a virtual machine, you run three times.
Now, this is the intelligent part here with TerraForm State Maintenance, it will only going to create
one resource even if you run this script three times.
So it will cost you three times.
It is just going to create one resource and it will cost you for one single resource only.
Now there are a lot of native tools are available inside the public cloud for creating infrastructure
provisioning like we have for Azure, for AWS and for Google Cloud.
Like for Azure, we have a template manager for Google, Deployment Manager for AWS.
Cloud formations are available now.
These are all cloud native solution, so generally it is being written in a Json or Yaml.
So whatever you learn for Google Cloud Deployment manager will not be applicable to AWS cloud formation.
So there is no unifying common approach when you, let's say, say from Azure to Google Cloud or from
Google Cloud to AWS for some infrastructure provisioning.
There comes a TerraForm.
TerraForm is a cloud agnostic.
It's independent of cloud, but it has a multiple providers are available like providers are available
for AWS, providers are available for Azure, providers are available for Google Cloud.
So don't worry about what provider is Later on.
We are going to have a much more detailed discussion about that.
So through this multiple providers, you can create resource with uniform programming, language unifying
approach for infrastructure creation, Hashicorp configuration language.
All right, everyone.
So that is the basic idea behind a TerraForm.
So TerraForm is not a native solution, it's a cloud agnostic solution.
TerraForm is a idempotent.
Let me go back and revise and these are some of the characteristics of TerraForm.
All right.
So what we will do now, we have done the enough theory about we started from the traditional IT workflow
to public cloud to infrastructure as a code, how we generally write code in hashicorp configuration
language.
That is just a very small glimpse I have provided to you and some features of TerraForm we have seen
and how this TerraForm approach will be much, much better compared to writing code for infrastructure
provisioning with shell script or Python script.
Okay, so next very important thing and let's get our hands dirty from the next video.
We are going to get started with TerraForm installation.
All right, everyone, I'll catch you in the next video.


=== Google Cloud Storage with Terraform ===


--- Install Terraform ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So let's see in this video how to install this terraform.
So TerraForm is available for all major operating system like for Windows, Mac Linux.
And apart from that we have a TerraForm version is available for Solaris Openbsd FreeBSD Okay, so throughout
this whole course we are going to use the windows, but don't worry, the code always remains same independent
of your different operating system.
With respect to your own operating system, you can download the individual one.
I'll show you about the link.
You can go to terraform.io/downloads.html.
Now here, very simple.
You download this binary file.
Unzip it and export the path variable.
Very simple.
Then simply start working with TerraForm script.
So for Windows, we'll see how to export this path variable.
For Linux, simply follow this particular command.
Export path is equal to dollar path, colon and path to your terraform binary.
All right, everyone.
Now next thing is we are going to simply verify with TerraForm version and editor editor, You are always
free to use any editor of your choice.
So it is up to you.
I would suggest you to use vs code because that is my personal preference.
But definitely you can always go ahead with your own favorite editor.
Okay, now let me go to browser and let's first download the binary for TerraForm so we can search for
TerraForm download.
Just go to very first link.
So currently I'm on a Windows machine, so I'm just going to download this 64 bit Windows version.
Let me close this one.
And it's close to around 32MB, so it's about to finish.
Now let me go to my download folder where it is going to get downloaded.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's downloaded.
Let me just simply unzip it.
Extract file.
Let me just make it a very simple one.
A terraform.
All right.
So inside the terraform, there is no much file or very simple one single binary file.
Now we can go to this particular place.
Let me open my console.
See Drive user download and TerraForm folder.
I can just easily start writing TerraForm code.
You can see, but it will not work from every single place.
So that's why we need to export the path variable.
Now in case of windows to export the path variable, you can go to this PC.
From such drive, you can right click and go to property for exporting your path variable.
Advanced system setting environment variable and go to path.
Let me edit it.
Now we can add one more path.
So let me add new And this is the path where my TerraForm binary situated.
Let me press.
Okay.
Let me close every single thing.
All right.
So now let me close this cell.
Also, command line.
Prompt.
I would say not a shell.
Let me go to CMD again and let me just writing a terraform from anywhere.
And you can see it just simply start working.
Let's verify which version of TerraForm we are going to use it.
So it will be a TerraForm space version.
All right.
So currently I am running with a TerraForm 1.0.7.
So mostly all scripts will be compatible with this version only.
All right.
So that is about the TerraForm installation.
TerraForm has been installed.
The editor.
So I have already installed this vscode in my machine, so I'm just going to use this Vscode.
And we are just simply going to write the code inside the VS code.
As I told, you can always use your own favorite editor.
So that's all about the installation of TerraForm.
From the next video, we'll get our hands dirty with writing a TerraForm script.


=== GCP Networking with Terraform ===


--- Terraform  Workflow -  Hello World ---

All right, everyone.
So in this video, we'll see a complete TerraForm workflow and we are going to create our first TerraForm
file.
Afterwards, we'll go how we are going to execute this file to make real changes to the remote infrastructure.
So in case of TerraForm workflow, the first thing is scoping.
Identify the infrastructure for your project.
What are the different resources you are going to create inside the infrastructure?
Next one is you need to write the configuration file for your infrastructure.
Now, depending on what infrastructure you are going to create, you need to create a configuration
file.
And this configuration files are nothing but those hashicorp configuration language.
Once your scripting file or configuration file is ready, which you have written in Excel.
Next thing is you need to initialize here you are going to download all the plugins required to manage
your infrastructure.
And the last two step will be plan and apply.
So plan will tell us our execution plan that.
What are the changes you are going to make in your remote infrastructure?
And last, you are actually going to make all those changes.
So this three steps we will see in the next video and mostly throughout this whole course, even these
three are the very important TerraForm Command, which every single now and then we are going to use
it, initialize, plan and apply.
So the first thing is you need to do scoping and authoring for your infrastructure creation.
So let's see about scoping and authoring.
So identify what resource you need to provision.
Let's say you want to create virtual machine inside the Google Cloud platform.
Or let's say you want to create a big table inside the Google Cloud platform.
So we won't go into Google Cloud plot as of now.
Let's go from the very basic and a very simple one.
Like we want to create a very simple local file.
Let's say some sample dot txt by writing some content inside this sample dot txt file.
So first, everything we need to write the configuration file in a SQL language.
How we are going to write it.
So this is the very simple sample code for here.
All the Hashicorp configuration language file has extension dot ttf.
So here we are created a dot ttf extension file.
Then comes like how to create this sample.txt file and writing some content inside it.
So what is this resource?
What is this local file?
What is this sample?
Underscore file name content.
Let's see all of them.
So this is the dot extension file.
The first ever thing is resource and this resource are nothing but a block.
Same way we have another blocks like a data.
So here we are going to write the file.
We are going to create the file.
So we have used the resource block.
If you want to read the file, same way we have other blocks are available like a data.
Then we have a local underscore file, which is nothing but a resource type.
Now, in this particular case, we are using a local provider and inside the local provider we have
a local underscore file resource are available.
We have a resource name.
So for each individual infrastructure creation or any resource creation, I would say in a very simple
term, we have to provide some unique identifier or I would say some unique name for this resource.
So let's say this file creation we are going to provide the name sample underscore is how this local
underscore file came.
Don't worry, we'll see about it from the documentation.
Next comes a two very important thing, which is nothing but arguments or I would say a resource attribute.
File name and content.
So with this resource block, we want to create a file with the name Sample.txt, where I just want
to keep the content.
I love TerraForm.
So this is the content inside the sample dot txt file.
So this is the resource type.
Now, this resource type is a part of some provider.
Now, we have already discussed in our basic introduction part of TerraForm that TerraForm offers a
number of provider.
Here we are going to discuss about a very simple provider like a local provider.
Inside the local provider, we have a multiple resources are available here.
In case of local provider.
We have just the one resource like a local underscore file, which is mainly used to create the file
and put the content inside the file.
So that is the very basic idea with a very simple hello world example of how to create a very simple
file by writing some content with this TerraForm script in a SQL language.
So first everything.
Now what we are going to do, we are going to create our TerraForm workspace and create our first TerraForm
file.
So let me go to somewhere in, let's say, C drive.
We are going to create TF workspace.
Now all this code I'm going to share with you, so don't worry about it.
And this is the place we are going to keep all our code.
The first ever folder.
Let's say we'll just make it like a first TF script.
Okay.
That is our first project with a very simple script.
Inside that we are going to create now a main.tf file.
But I'm not going to do anything from here.
I'm just going to open my VS code or Visual Studio code so you can have a look at.
Now Visual Studio code is open.
Now let me open this particular workspace.
So from file open folder, let me go to my C drive and we have just now created TF workspace, so select
this folder.
And everything inside this workspace will appear here.
Twist.
All right.
Now we have a very first folder, first hyphen hyphen script.
Let me create my first ever file Main.tf inside it.
Now, before we go ahead, let me show you from the plugins or extension.
I would say there is a number of TerraForm extensions are available.
So for some code completion suggestion, you can install any one of them.
So I have already installed one of them.
So that is from this Anton.
Kulikov.
Okay.
So that will give us a syntax highlighting and very nice way it will display all our content.
So let me go to my explorer Main.tf.
All right.
So here actually we are going to write our first ever code.
We'll be starting with resource.
So you can see there are a lot of suggestion has been given.
So resource local file.
So if I select this local file by default, all the attributes of this local file provider will come.
Now we have discussed about just the two attributes file name and another one is content and they haven't
listed here content.
Don't worry about this file permission and sensitive content.
Later we'll discuss about it.
Let's go with a very simple one like a file name and content.
So file which we want to create that is nothing but a sample dot txt file.
Resource, a unique name for our resource.
We need to provide, let's say we will provide a sample, underscore or sample resource and the content.
So content will be we have already provided here by this suggestion that that is a sensitive content.
So sensitive content has its own meaning.
Later, we'll see about it.
Let's go ahead with the text.
We will write like I love TerraForm.
All right, let me save it.
So now let me go back to my slide and you can have a look at the very first step we have accomplished.
Scoping is nothing, but we want to create a local file with this TerraForm script authoring.
That means we have written our SQL Language TerraForm script.
Next thing is we need to initialize it.
We need to plan it and we need to apply all those changes.
So in the next video, we'll see in detail how it's going to work.
I'll catch you in the next video.


=== Google Compute Engine with Terraform ===


--- Terraform  init, Plan, Apply ---

All right, everyone.
So let's continue our discussion on TerraForm complete workflow with a simple Hello World program.
So in this video, we'll see how to initialize it, how to plan it, and how to apply it.
So in case of any, what exactly happens.
So this is the very first command you need to execute after writing your configuration.
File it, just initialize your working directory and do all those necessary changes in your local system
where your terraform exists.
Not anything in your remote infrastructure.
It downloaded all plugins.
Don't worry.
After execution of this code, I'll show you what plugins it will going to download.
So in this particular case we have a local underscore file.
Same way we have other plugins are available like a random providers.
So for random we'll see later about it.
Another step is plan.
So it is going to create a execution plan.
It doesn't change any infrastructure, but it will tell us that what are the necessary changes you are
going to apply, like what different resources you are going to create, what different resources you
are going to update, what are the properties of resources you are going to update or do some kind of
necessary changes or what resource or how many resources you are going to destroy it.
So that is the plan it will create for us.
If we are satisfied with a plan and if it goes as per our requirement, we can go ahead with the last
command like apply.
So apply will execute all the changes, provisioned resources in a specified configuration file.
All right, so now time to take real action.
So let me go to my Visual Studio code.
And you can have a look at.
Currently I am inside this main.tf file how we are going to execute it.
So let me open the terminal.
Now, this terminal, I can open it from my command line prompt also, and I can execute a same command
from here.
So we have already created one workspace then.
We have created a first TypeScript.
So this is the place I can execute all commands, but I'm not going to execute every single command
from this command line prompt.
Instead of that, we have already a PowerShell and a bash shell is available inside this Visual Studio
code only, so I'm just going to continue from here now.
Moment I.
Open this terminal.
It has opened up PowerShell.
I want to execute everything in a command prompt and already we have exported the path so I can execute
this TerraForm script from anywhere.
So TerraForm.
And let me just confirm TerraForm version and it's working fine.
All right.
The very first thing is terraform init command.
We need to execute now before initializing.
I just want to show you that inside this first hyphen hyphen script there is no single file exists apart
from this main.tf.
After we execute this terraform, is there any way to make fonts a little bigger?
Because that would be better for you.
I can make it something like this.
I think this is good enough.
I can make it a little smaller even.
All right, so let's execute terraform
init.
Okay.
And let me go ahead.
Oops.
So that is one mistake.
I am currently inside this workspace and there is no main.tf file exists.
So you can see the directory has no terraform configuration file.
So that's a mistake.
I did, but that's perfectly fine.
We need to go to our first TypeScript folder.
Let me clear it and from clear it doesn't work here.
I think it's a CLS.
Yeah.
CLS works.
So terraform init.
Now I can execute because in this particular directory we have a main.tf file exists.
Let me execute terraform space in it.
You can have a look at what is going on.
We are going to read every single thing.
So initializing backend system initializing provider.
Now here in this particular case the providers are nothing but a local provider.
So with this init command it has downloaded this hashicorp local prajin.
And the version of this local plugins are 2.1.0.
You can have a look at.
There is a one more folder got created.
Dot TerraForm.
If you go inside any one of the file, anything that's executable, log file.
So here they have given the information about what provider they have downloaded with this terraform
init command.
Local provider with this particular version.
And is some cryptographic hash.
So let me close it so you can see with this init command.
These are the backend file got created.
Next thing is, once we initialize it, that means a system.
A terraform knows that for this particular configuration file to execute, we need to have a local provider
and that is being downloaded.
Now we are going to do a plan.
So plan will tell us that.
What are the changes you are going to apply?
So it is going to create.
That's why it's a plus create.
These are the changes it is going to apply with following resource attribute.
So there are two attributes we have already provided, like a content.
Then we have a file name.
Apart from that, if we do not provide there are some default value.
How to read this documentation?
We'll see about this later on an ID.
So after this resource will be created, we'll get some unique identification.
And this is the sample underscore is a resource name to identify which resource you are going to create.
So in case of plan, you can see there is a one to add.
That means one resource.
It is going to add it zero to change.
There is no change.
We are going to do it and zero to destroy no resource.
We are going to destroy it.
Okay.
So now we are satisfied with what we want to do.
So what we will do, let's next thing is we are going to apply it.
As of now, we are going very slow because we are writing this script very first time and it says that.
Do you want to perform this action?
Yes.
With following changes has been displayed as a plan.
Yes.
All right.
So you can have a look at local file dot sample dot resource.
So that is the reference for this particular resource.
Local underscore file dot sample underscore arias and after creation of this sample dot txt file, we
got this id, so this ID is nothing but a unique identification after we did apply on our resources.
So on the left hand side you can see there is a two more file got created.
One file which we actually want to create that is sample dot txt file.
I love terraform and there is one more.tf state.
So as of now don't worry about it.
So that is the current state which continuously being monitored by this TerraForm script.
What it needs to add, what it needs to update and what are the resource needs to be destroyed.
So that's why there is a.tf state file and you can have a look at with this simple configuration language
file.
We have created our sample dot txt file if you want to see the permissions and everything that is been
given by this particular default value only.
All right.
So that is the complete flow of our Hello World program of TerraForm Workflow.
I'll see you in the next video.
We'll get our hands dirty and continuously working and building some more and more constructs related
to Hashicorp configuration language.
I'll see you in the next one.


=== Google Cloud Run with Terraform ===


--- Terraform  - local_file arguments ---

All right, everyone.
So in the last video we have completed our Hello world example inside this terraform.
So now let's get a little bit more in a detail.
Part of this resource attribute of this local underscore file resource type.
So we have used the just the two argument.
One is the content and another one is a file name.
So file name is definitely required one.
But still we want to write some content.
So we have used the.
Contain argument or I would say a country attribute.
Apart from that, it is supporting few more arguments like a sensitive content contain underscore base64.
Uh.
Oops.
Then we have a.
File permission and directory permission.
So if you want to add a few of more attributes from here, let's see how to add it.
So let's first focus upon, let's say file, underscore permission and sensitive underscore content.
So earlier also we added some content.
So content of file to create.
And here also we are going to add some content, but this will not be displayed in a diff.
So that is the difference between content and a sensitive content.
Why it is important.
So let me go to my terraform.
So if you go to terminal.
When we execute this TerraForm plan, you can have a look at.
The content got displayed.
I love Terawan.
Let's say this particular content.
I just do not want to display it.
So in that particular case, I can use the sensitive content.
So for that, what we will do, we are not going to work here with this command, with this particular
project.
Now we'll add a the complete new one.
So that won't be inside this one.
That will be inside our workspace.
Oops.
It is skipped creating here only.
And that's where we don't want to create it.
Is there any other way?
No.
Yeah.
So local underscore arc kind of project.
I'll create it.
And the same main.tf file.
Let me copy it and keep it here and here only we are going to do changes.
Now why am just keep creating new projects so you can follow it very well.
So let me now first ever thing is let me go to my new directory which we have created.
Local underscore arc CLS.
Now, instead of this content, I'm going to use the sensitive content that is nothing but US
sensitive underscore content.
Let's just make sure our syntax are correct.
So that's a sensitive content.
And one more will be a file underscore permission we are going to see.
Let's say the same text.
I'm going to write it here and let me simply remove this one.
Okay.
Same sample text, but sample underscore args.
It is going to create so there will be a differentiation.
Now let's go ahead with all those same process.
TerraForm init.
First everything it is going to download.
Now we are in a different directory.
So all this process we have to do again and again.
Now important thing is by adding this new argument instead of contain, it's a sensitive contain terraform
plan.
And you can have a look at now the value inside the file, which we want to write that is not being
displayed, and that is the change we applied sensitive value.
No content has been displayed.
So that is the difference between content argument and sensitive underscore content argument.
Let me apply it.
Always provide a yes and you can have a look at the file got created.
Now we want to see what is the file permission for this one.
So is there any way we can see from here reveal in File Explorer?
Yeah, it has opened for us.
So let me right click and go to property.
So this is the unique space system to write this.
700 and default one will be 777.
No on windows.
It's I think it's getting difficult to see, but it has a full control.
You can have a look at for all authenticated user modify, read, execute, write special permission.
For administrator for users.
Okay.
What we will do, let me press.
Okay.
And now I'm going to add one more argument.
Like a file.
Permission.
So what is the file permission?
So by default, it will take into consideration 0777.
So instead of 0777, let's just make it 0700.
Let me save it.
Now, if I try to let's say again, do initialize, nothing will change because it is just trying to
reusing the local provider because apart from local provider we haven't added any other plugin.
So that's perfectly fine.
But in case of plants, we will be able to see all those changes.
So now plan one to add so you can have a look at the file.
Permission is going to change from this one to this one.
And it is also going to change because you are going to create a new resource.
So from this ID, the ID, you will know after we do the fly.
Okay, so let me apply it.
Yes.
So first it is going to destroy this sample.
Underscore args dot txt and our file also got created with a new id.
See first it has destroyed this file sample underscore arg.
Keep the content of terraform inside it after creation of file and we got our new ID for our resource.
Let me right click and reveal in file Explorer.
Now for this particular file, let me go to property.
Uh, security.
Hmm.
Not sure about it.
How to see.
But don't worry on Windows Machine.
How to see the file permission with a Linux based system.
I'll show you.
This is a command line shell.
So does this works?
No.
LS won't work.
Do we have a deal?
So there will also doesn't display the file permission, but it has created a new file with this file
permission.
So this way you can add new permission.
Of newly created file.
All right, everyone.
So that is how you can add a different arguments to your local provider.
More about the local and multiple resources we'll see in the next video.


=== Google Cloud Function with Terraform ===


--- Terraform  - Multiple Resources ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So, so far we have created one single resource, a very simple file creation inside the one configuration
file.
Now let's say if we want to create a multiple resources.
So let's say we have a one resource, something like a same file creation, but now let's say it's a
cat dot txt and I'm just going to write a content like I love cat inside this cat dot file or dog dot
txt file.
I want to create it with this content.
I love dogs inside the dog so I can keep both the content in a different directory and I can go ahead
with this initializing plan and apply.
Or I can combine everything in a main.tf and multiple resource block.
Also we can keep it.
So let's see in action how to keep this multiple resource block in a one single file.
So now let me create a new folder.
Let me close the remaining oil stuff.
That would be better.
And let's say people.
This was okay.
I think I should have kept every time here not hyphen it's underscore.
It would be better.
Okay.
Now, same main.tf file.
Let me copy it.
And keep it inside this multiple resource.
So sample underscore is instead of that let's say cat underscore is cat dot txt and I love cats.
Same way another block is going to create but now it will be a doc.
Underscore is doc dot txt and i love docs.
All right.
Now let me go to proper place CLS.
Let me go to a multiple provider multiple underscore resource folder.
Just now we have created TerraForm init.
So again it will download this local provider plugin terraform plan.
You can have a look at.
Now, there are two resources that is going to create plan says to to add zero to change zero to destroy
with a to file cat dot txt and dog dog tsd Let me clear it and let's say we are going to apply.
Yes, successfully.
We have created two file doc, dot txt and cat dot txt.
So this way you can add multiple resource in a one single file.
So now you can try to create cat and dog and keep both of these resource in a different different file
and try to run a same thing.
As an exercise for you.
So so far we have used just the local provider and we have used a multiple local underscore file resource
type in a one single file.
But now we are going to go ahead from our local provider to one more provider, which is nothing but
a logical provider, which is going to generate a random thing for us.
Our random provider.
So in the next video, we'll see about the random provider.
I'll catch you in the next video.


=== Cloud BigQuery with Terraform ===


--- Random Provider ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So far, we have seen about just one single local provider, which is going to help us to read file,
but we haven't seen about how to read those file, but how to write those file with some content.
Now we are going to see another provider or random provider.
So this random provider help us to introduce some kind of randomness inside our TerraForm configuration.
So let's say for some ID generation or let's say some file content writing, we want to introduce some
kind of randomness you can consider This random provider is equivalent to any random module available
in any other programming language, which is eventually going to generate a different random integer,
different random decimal numbers, random string, random password, something like that.
And the same way this random provider is also going to generate force.
Now this random providers are the logical provider, which means it just entirely works within a terraform's
logic and it doesn't have any kind of interaction with other services.
That means after execution, it is not going to change any other infrastructure.
It is just going to entirely work within a terraform's logic and the output of this random provider.
We can use it inside other resource provisioning.
So let's see in action.
But before that, I just want to show you about the hierarchy.
Like we have learned earlier, a local provider inside the local provider we have just one resource
are available local underscore file, which is going to eventually create the files and put some content
inside the file.
Now, inside this random provider, we have a multiple resources type available like for random ID generation,
integer generation, password generation, batch generation.
You want to shuffle some data.
All right.
So let's just go to our Visual Studio code and let's see things in action.
So let me create one folder, random underscore provider.
Let just make a as usual main dot ts file.
And now I'm going to create a resource random integer generation, let's say.
So this is the nice suggestion has been given.
If there is no suggestion you can use resource.
Random.
Underscore integer, and that is the resource type.
Now we need to provide the name.
So let's say I'll give the name aunt.
So here, what are the arguments we need to supply?
So first let us go to documentation for this TerraForm.
Random.
So like random, we have seen that there are a lot of other providers are available.
We are going one step ahead now from the local provider.
Let me go to random provider.
So in case of random provider, we have two arguments are available.
Min max if you go to detail stuff.
Min max min max are the required argument.
Without that it is not going to create a random integer for us.
And these are some optional arguments.
See?
So every single time you want to generate a same thing.
So let's do one thing.
Let's just.
Set Max and Min and the results you will get or I would say the random integer you will get in a result
variable.
I will show you how to see this result variable.
So let's use the max and min.
So min let's just make it some 50 max.
Let's just make it 70.
Okay.
Now what we will do, let's just try to execute with this minimal argument.
So output you are anyhow going to get in a result variable and let's see whether it will display this
thing or not.
So let's just go to random provider terraform init.
And the difference thing which you need to notice now is our random provider.
So earlier due to this local provider it is able to download this local provider, but now we have introduced
one more provider which is a random provider, so it has downloaded the plugin for this random provider.
And the version number for this is 3.1.0.
Okay, let me clear the screen and next thing is TerraForm plan.
So this is the new resource that is going to create.
Now, this is completely a logical resource.
So TerraForm apply.
Yes.
And you can see it has generated one resource, but ID is 62, but there is no place it has a display.
What is the random number it has generated?
That is just ID 62 it has generated.
So in output, if you go to documentation, the output or I would say the read only the exported parameter
will be ID, the string representation of integer result.
So same result you will get as ID also, but that will be a string representation.
So result also you will be able to see in a number format, but in both output variable you will get
a same one.
Now suppose the same variable you want to display it so you can use output.
Now we haven't learned about the output, so output is another kind of block, which is helpful to display
the content.
So now in this particular case, the output is a block and let's provide some unique identifier for
our output value.
Now you can consider this output is something like a print F of C language or some printing statement
for your programming language.
Let's just make it let's say name one.
I'll just make it remaining all things.
I'm just going to remove it in output part.
We will have a detailed discussion on it.
Now I want to display this.
Results.
So how I am going to address it.
So it will be a random integer dot.
Will be a r int dot result.
So first I have written the name for resource type, then the resource name, and afterwards it's a
result.
So there is the things we have made changes and there is no extra provider.
We have added just the random provider.
So let's just apply or I would say first plan it.
So there is one change.
See change output it has already displayed because now it is not going to display from here because
already there is one thing got displayed and there is no change in this particular part of configuration.
So if there is no change in a configuration part, it is not going to display it.
So what we will do, either we can do some changes, let's say instead of 62, let's just make it some
80, 80 and let's make it 200.
Okay, let me plan it again.
Yes, one to add, and these are the changes ID.
So earlier it was a 62 and we will get to know about it after we apply it.
Max value 70.
It is going to change to 200.
Replacement minimum.
It was earlier 50, now it becomes 80 and earlier.
The result we got is 62.
But now we have will know after we apply.
So let's just apply it.
Yes.
Yeah.
So you can have a look at in a nice clean format.
Name one variable got displayed, which is nothing but a random value between 80 and a 200.
It's a 153.
All right, everyone.
So we have seen about the random integer.
Let's see one more quickly.
Random string.
So in case of random string, what are the minimum required parameters?
So let's just use length.
These are all the optional parameter for better customization.
You can definitely use it.
So same way here.
Also you will get the output in a result variable only.
So what we will do.
Random underscore string and the required parameter will be.
Lent.
So let me display resource.
We have a random string and I'm just going to give our string.
Let me remove all remaining arguments.
Now lent, let's say some 15 character random string.
I want to generate it.
Let's see whether it will display or not.
Some changes we have applied.
Yes.
So only name one value variable got displayed and there is an ID, So this is the random string it has
generated.
But as the ID because ID and results are same.
So what we will do same output block I'm just going to copy it.
Let me keep it in a name too.
And now instead of random integer, it will be a random string, random string dot result.
Let me plan it.
And let just simply apply it.
All right.
So you can see name one variable 153 because earlier it has generated it is not going to generate again
and this is the random string.
All right, everyone.
So we have seen about the two resource type, random integer, random string.
You can have a look at other resource type and do practice about this random pat random password generation,
random Uuid generation.
So with this, I'm just ending this video and more about this Hashicorp configuration language we'll
see in upcoming videos.
I'll catch you in the next one.


=== Cloud PubSub with Terraform ===


--- Introduction to Variables ---

All right, everyone.
So let's introduce another programming construct inside this hashicorp configuration language of variables.
So as a computer professional programming professional application developer, there is nothing special
about the variables.
We all know what variables is.
So, so far, whatever value content we kept inside any of the resource attribute, that is all hardcoded.
Let's say we want to make it a little more dynamic.
We want to introduce a variable instead of putting those hardcoded value.
So that's where variable comes in a picture.
So let's go to our original local provider resource like sample dot txt.
And the content is I love TerraForm, so both this variable file name and content.
So for us this is not a variable.
So far, these are the resource attribute of resource local underscore file and its name is sample.
Underscore is, let's say we want to create a two variable file name and content.
So TerraForm provides us the facility to create another file where you can keep all your variables variables,
dot file and we can keep the variable something like this with variable block.
So first thing is variable block, then your variable name.
And inside the braces you can provide what is the type of variable and what are the default value for
your variable.
This is not only variable string.
There are other data types also being supported.
But in the next video we'll see about it.
But how we are going to address this variable inside our Main.tf file.
So instead of writing this Main.tf file with a hardcoded value sample dot txt and I love terraform.
We can reference something like this.
So where dot file name.
Now this file name here refers to the variable which we have created here.
And this content is the same one as this variable.
So now file name is equal to we will get from here where dot file name and a content will get from where
dot contain.
All right, so let's put all this code in action.
Let me create a new folder Variables
main.tf.
Now, many time earlier, we have used this resource block with a local provider now.
All right, let me remove all this stuff.
Or, uh, rather than doing this way, we can just simply copy from our earlier code.
Okay.
So that will save some time for us.
All right, Now, there is a one more file we are going to introduce.
That is nothing but a variables.tf.
So let's write a variable so you can here give what is the type of variable, what is the default value
for your variable?
And for each variable, if you want to give some description, you can provide it here.
So our variable name, let's just keep it file name.
What is the file name?
We want to keep it so it will be a sample dot txt.
And that is nothing but a default value.
It's just a simple file name.
I don't want to provide any description for this variable.
Let me copy this one.
And now another variable content.
The default value.
I love TerraForm.
All right.
So you can have a look at two variables.
God, define how we are going to use it.
So as we have seen in the slide, we can just simply use var dot.
File name same way.
Where?
Dot content.
Now, don't get confused.
We have used the same variable name as a resource name, but definitely you can use something like this.
And here also you can keep it.
So you will have a much better idea.
This is the resource attribute and this is the variable which we have defined.
Okay.
Now let me clear the screen.
Currently I am in a random provider from my earlier videos, so let me go to variables
again.
We need to do terraform init because of this random.
Yeah.
Not random provider.
Now it's a local file.
Local provider.
Let me clear the screen terraform plan.
So this is the new content.
It is going to create it.
And you can have a look at it is automatically taken into consideration both this content and file name.
Now let's just apply.
Yes.
New file got created.
Sample dot txt.
I love TerraForm.
Now let's say I'll introduce a different name, a default value instead of sample.
Let's just make it sample one dot txt.
I.
Am loving TerraForm.
And again, we'll try to apply this first plan and some changes.
So you can see the idea here is to change this variable name is to give you an idea about at a plan
stage execution plan stage only.
It will read this variable value from this variables.tf file.
Let me apply it and let's just wind up this video TerraForm apply.
Yes.
Done.
So Sample.txt has been removed.
See, that is the beauty here.
We have created sample one dot txt.
In the next execution, but sample dot txt also got removed.
So first it has destroyed earlier resource.
And that is what this terraform beauty is.
It just keep tracking for whatever you have done earlier.
There.
Even if you don't want to delete it, it needs to be deleted because you are doing the same change.
Now you are going to deal with another file.
So why you require earlier file?
Why you require earlier resource.
So first it is going to destroy this sample dot txt file and that's where it has removed or I will say
destroyed the resource with earlier ID and created a new ID and created a sample one dot txt file having
this content.
All right.
So that is the concept behind TerraForm State and that's all about the variable.
Now it is not just a string variable.
There are other kinds of variables.
So in the next video we will have a discussion on it.


=== Relational DB - Cloud SQL & Spanner  with Terraform ===


--- Types of Variable - I ---

All right, everyone.
So in the last video so far, we have seen about the one single variable, which is nothing but a very
common string type of variable.
Now let's introduce few more variables, like a number.
We have a boolean.
Either it can be a true value or a false value, or we have a list which is nothing but a sequence of
value which you can represent inside this terraform something like this list string and simply a list
of values.
Or we have a, let's say tuples.
So you want to group non-homogeneous type of elements.
So in case of list, all the elements inside the sequences will have a same data type, but in case
of tuple, all the element can have a different data types.
So like in case of tuple, let's first introduce with this first element string, then number, then
bull.
Same order.
It has to be like a doc string 23 is the number and true boolean.
Apart from that, we have a map you want to display.
Let's say some key value stuff like Name is a great age is 32 or set.
You want to put only unique values and we have some complex data type so you can combine about data
types and create your custom complex data type.
So there are many data types, generally, any other programming language being supported same way this
hashicorp configuration language.
Also supports.
So what we will do string we have already seen and done enough about it.
So in this video, let's test with this for variable number bull list and tuple and in the next video
the remaining one will see.
So let me go to my VS code.
And let's create another project like a types of variable, same like a earlier case.
I'm just going to copy this main.tf and variable.tf.
All right, Now, let me close every single thing.
Close this variable and now I have a main.tf and variables.tf inside the types of variable.
Main.tf.
So we are having a two content content where dot contain one and where dot file one.
Now instead of writing this.
Content.
One as a string.
Let's just make it some number.
Okay.
So I'm just going to introduce here the default value.
Let's say 23.
A very simple one.
First, you need to define what is the type of variable and what is its default value.
Let me go to my types of variable.
Let's initialize it.
Then
let's plan it.
One resource.
And now let's apply.
All right, then.
Sample one dot txt got created and its value is 23.
So this way you can define number.
Let's introduce one more like a boolean.
So what we'll do, I'm just going to create another block with the same content one and I'm going to
show you how to add comment.
So this way you can add, comment and remove this particular block from the code.
So now we have a another variable contain one, but that we will just keep it like a bull.
Let's say we'll just make it true.
Okay.
So it is going to introduce true inside the.
Sample one dot txt.
Let's plan it and apply.
All right then let's open sample one dot txt and you can see it has a true.
So this part I have commented and.
I introduced another data type A bool.
Now there are two more like a list and tuple, so that's very interesting.
So let me comment this part also now for the bull one.
So whenever you require or you do practice, you just uncomment a respective part.
Now.
Variable.
So what is the name of our variable?
Let's say the same.
We'll just keep it like a content one.
Description.
Let's remove description.
You can definitely keep it.
Now we are going to introduce a list.
So list.
Let's say we will keep it three values just like what we have seen in a slide.
Red, green, and let's say blue.
All right.
And the type type will not be string, otherwise it will give us error.
So it will be like a list and string.
So all the value inside the list, having a data type string.
So this way we have defined our content one.
But definitely if you just write this way, if you go to Main.tf file.
What it will add inside this sample one dot txt file.
So let's just try it and then I'll introduce what is indexing here.
So plan.
Now you can imagine that why we are not doing every single time this in it because our local provider
random provider, everything has been downloaded in a very first shot.
We are interested in just the local provider in this particular.
So you can see that is the incorrect way of accessing the value inappropriate value attribute content.
So if you go to main one, Main.tf, you cannot address.
A list variable, something like this.
So it is not going to display the complete value.
Instead of that, you can address the individual element of this particular content.
Let's say I just want to get this green value.
So here the very first element has been referenced with index number zero.
Then it's a one and then it's a two.
So let's say green.
So green will be indexed with the.
Index number one.
So we have to introduce something like this for one.
All right.
Let's plan it.
And then.
See now from true earlier it is going to become green.
Let me apply it.
Yes.
Then let me open sample one dot txt and you can see that's a green.
Now that is a one more last variable type which we are going to introduce.
So I'm just going to copy it.
Let me comment the our earlier variable and instead of list now it is going to become a tuple.
So in case of tuple, you need to provide all the data types.
So let us say first value will be will just keep it string, then bool and let's just make it some number.
Okay.
Now suppose in a default value, if I keep all the values not in a same order.
So let's say second element has to be boolean.
Instead of that, I'll just make it some integer and then I'll make it boolean.
Let's try to plan it.
See, immediately we got error.
That's the type conversion error.
So type constraint.
So that's a tuple is required, but that is not a tuple because our argument data type has been mismatch.
So what we will do, let's just save this 23 at the end and let's plan it again.
Yes.
Bang on.
Done again.
In case of our main, we are accessing a very first element or I would say the element with index number
one, we are interested in let's say zero one.
So I can introduce here zero.
So that is how individual element you can access with a different indexing number.
First one will be zero, then one, then two.
Since we have changed something, let's plan for it.
And you can see now it becomes green to red.
Let's apply.
All right.
Bang on.
Done.
Let's go to sample one dot txt and it becomes read.
So you can definitely experiment with different data type how to reference a different element inside
this list and string.
All right everyone.
So while practicing you can comment your respective part and practice yourself.
So that's all about this video.
More on other data types like a map and a set We'll see in the next video.


=== NoSQL Database in GCP with Terraform ===


--- Types of Variable - II ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in the last video we have seen about the four data types, number, Boolean list and tuples.
Now let's see one step ahead with the map and set.
So let me go to my.
Visual Studio code.
Okay.
So now I'm just going to comment out this part and let me introduce a same variable, but now as a map.
So instead of tuple, let's say I'll just make it like a map and the default value we are going to introduce
as a dictionary.
So dictionary, you can set it something like this.
Let's say name.
Is equal to my name.
Okay.
Let's say age.
I'll just make it 32.
All right.
Now, suppose if I just try to execute a plan, I should get error because there is a two value and
you just cannot reference something like this instead of that.
Now, our indexing will not be zero and one and two.
Something like a sequence of numbers in case of integer based indexing.
Now we have a dedicated indexing like a name is equal to not zero is equal to Ankit.
Not one is equal to 32.
It's a age is equal to 32.
So instead of zero, we can keep it.
Something like a, let's say, name.
This is the name.
So this way we can address individual element of the map variable.
Let me plan it.
Bang on done rate will become okay.
Now let me apply it.
Oops.
Yes.
Done.
Let's go to sample one dot txt.
So it works.
All right, everyone.
So same way you can define set or any other complex data type also.
So with this, I'm just ending this video and more on variable we'll see in the next video.


=== More GCP Resource via Terraform ===


--- Using Variables ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So let's discuss some more things about the variable that how you are going to use the variable.
So this is the first way, second, third and a fourth.
So there are four ways I'm going to introduce how you are going to define or how you are going to use
those variable inside the some resource creation.
So very first thing, first approach we have already seen define some where dot file name way you can
access the individual variable.
So define this variable block inside this some variables dot file and access individual variable which
you have defined with this way where dot file name.
Suppose you don't provide any kind of default value.
So what will happen?
So this come with the another two approach to supply this variable second and a third approach In both
the case when you try to apply this terraform apply, it will automatically ask what is the content
of this file name?
Or while applying with another flag, you can supply the same thing.
And there is one more like a you can export it as a environment variable export TFR.
So that is the standard keyword.
TF underscore.
Underscore and provide.
Your variable name is equal to so automatically from the command line prompt it will.
Take this variable into consideration.
These are not the only files.
You can put your variables inside the Terraform.tf vars or standard naming convention file, or you
can use it terraform.tf vars dot Json or any file which is ending with star dot auto dot tfrs or it
will be a star dot auto dot to dot json.
So this way you can put your variable in any of this file.
Now there are lots of different places we are putting this variable.
There are lots of way we are going to introduce this variable inside this hashicorp configuration language.
So which variable will be loaded first?
So definitely there is some priority.
So first, when we apply, it is going to load this variable from this environmental variable name when
whatever we have exported, if there is no exported, definitely it won't get variable at this level.
Then it will search for variable inside this terraform.tf vars file.
Then it will go to variable.auto.tf file to get this variable.
And at the end, if he doesn't get it, will search for whether apply.
We have introduced extra flag hyphen war or not.
So definitely this fourth level has a highest priority.
If something you supplied from the command line, definitely it has a very high priority and all the
variable value which we have added in earlier files, that all will be overwritten.
So in this particular priority.
It will load this variable first, and the variable which will be loaded at the last will be which is
having a highest priority.
All right, everyone.
So that is about the variable.
More on this at scale.
We'll see in upcoming videos.


=== Role Plays ===


--- Multiple Providers ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in the last few videos or in earlier section, we have seen in one single file how to keep multiple
resources of a same provider.
Now, let's say if I want to keep a multiple provider in a same file like a main.tf.
So one provider, definitely our favorite one will be a local provider.
And there is one more.
We have introduced a random one.
So random provider, let's say both of them, if we want to keep it, how it is going to generate this
resource.
It's a so simple, there is nothing special about it, but definitely you can use it for number of different
provider in a one single file.
So let me create multiple provider and.
Let me introduce new file main.tf.
Let's say resource local file.
Only contain.
Let's just keep it.
File name remaining.
All thing will just leave it.
Sample dot txt
and we have a file.
Oops.
We should keep it here as sample dot txt.
And here let's introduce some content.
This is excel.
Okay.
And there will be one more block that is nothing but what random string.
That's good enough with the all bare minimum arguments.
Okay, let's say sum ten and I'm just going to apply it.
Let me change from PowerShell to command line.
I like command line always.
So multiple provider in a one single file.
Now here it is going to download a two plugin.
One is the local plugin you can see and another one is random plugin.
So there are two plugin it has identified.
Even if you go to, I think Dot TerraForm, you can have a look at local plugin and there is a random
plugin.
Now, let me do close ups.
TerraForm Plan.
So instead of one now it is going to create a two new resource.
TerraForm Apply.
Yes.
And you can have a look at there is a to ID got created.
One is a string name with this one.
Then we have a local provider resource ID.
This one.
All right.
So this way you can combine multiple provider in one single file.
Now, in the next video, we'll just try to connect both of them, let's say.
The content generated in one of the file has a dependency here.
So there is some two kinds of dependency, implicit and explicit dependency.
So in the next video, we'll see both of them.


=== Thank you & way forward ===


--- Dependency ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in the last video we have introduced a two provider in one single file, local provider and let's
say random provider.
Now let's say we want to connect both of them.
Now, whatever random string let's say we generate in at this particular block.
Or after creation of resource from this particular block.
We want to keep it inside this particular content.
So definitely there is a local provider which depends upon a random provider.
So there are two ways we can introduce same thing implicit dependency, and that is a explicit dependency.
So in case of implicit dependency, let's say this is the our earlier file two files, implicit dot
txt.
We want to create it having a content.
I love terraform and this is going to generate our random string having a 20 length.
So after introducing this implicit dependency, let's say if I just keep it something like this.
I love random text and after that the random text is going to come from our random underscore string
resource which is being generated from this particular block.
So this block is going to create this one, See?
Or I can keep it here.
Result also we have seen earlier.
So this is the way to introduce other resource attribute inside this particular resource attribute.
So we have introduced a random provider resource attribute to this local provider resource.
So whatever string being generated has been introduced here with this dollar and a curly braces expression,
if you want to keep something in a string.
So that will be something like a string concatenation.
So what we will do now, we'll go to our Visual Studio code and we are going to introduce implicit dependency.
First, there is a explicit dependency.
Later we will see because there is a subtle difference between both of them.
So multiple provider.
What I'm going to do.
Let me copy this.
Multiple provider.
Copy.
And paste it.
Let me change
dependency.
Okay.
So now here I have a main.tf.
Let's say I'll just make it implicit file.
I want to create it and content.
So content I need not a hardcoded one, but this is the random string.
From.
Random provider.
I'll just make it random provider how I'm going to take this particular string so I can use this random
string.
Having a dollar curly braces.
random_string.name.id or I can make it a result.
Also, let's just make it id.
Okay.
So whatever.
Random.
Stuff will be generated from this block will be introduced here.
Now there is a issue.
So both of them resource.
We have given the same name like a name.
So let me just make it.
Name one and name two.
Now let me go to dependency.
Now there is a one thing you need to aware that after we do plan, I'll show you.
So we are just simply reusing random provider and a local provider.
TerraForm Plan.
Oops, there is some issue.
What is the issue?
We got.
Uh, what it says that managed resource, random underscore string has not been declared here.
Uh, yes.
Uh, the name.
Name we haven't defined because here we have given the reference name like a name, but we change it.
Name to it has to be name to.
Let's apply or plan it first, then now let me apply it.
Yes.
Bang on.
So a lot of change it has done because of we have taken this code from earlier.
So there are a lot of state related stuff also available.
Now, you can see in implicit, this is the random string from a random provider and this is the random
string.
Now you can see here.
There is a small.
Change I am going to do.
First, I am just going to simply destroy everything.
So, TerraForm.
Destroy.
Yes, I want to destroy.
And now let me apply.
Or once again, let me plan it.
And now I'm going to apply.
Now you can see there is one thing we haven't told that there is a dependency from this particular local
provider to the random provider, but due to such expression, TerraForm has automatically identified
that.
For creation of this resource.
I need the output from this resource.
So first I have to create this name to resource.
So that's why it has created this name to resource first generated this random string and afterwards
created another resource local file.
Even if we have written this local file resource at a first shot.
So it doesn't matter how you write your source code in the same step, it is not going to create all
those resource.
It will take care of all those dependencies.
But still we haven't explicitly specified anywhere about the dependency, but that is nothing but.
Our implicit dependency automatically.
TerraForm SQL has identified this thing.
Now there is another kind of dependency which is explicit dependency.
So in case of implicit, we haven't describe anywhere, but in case of explicit dependency, we can
provide in case of our local file, our extra argument like depend on.
So this particular resource creation from this local provider has a dependency on a random provider.
Now in a random provider also which particular resource.
So that will be a random underscore string dot random name.
So let's introduce with explicit dependency.
So now there is a one more like a.
So if you want to explicitly provide, then also you can go ahead.
So depend on where it is going to depend on.
So definitely it will be a random underscore string dot name, too.
All right.
And now let me plan it.
I think there is some simple type only.
I think it's depends on let me write depends upon depends on not depend on.
So let me plan.
Yeah, it works.
And let me now apply so you can see in case of apply, it is not going to do anything because we haven't
done any kind of changes.
But only thing is that another way to explicitly define some dependency.
So if I just make it, let's say, explicit.
Let me plan it.
Let me apply it.
Yes, bang on explicit has been created.
All right, everyone.
So that is all about the how to create dependency between multiple resources.
See you in next video.

--- Output Block ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So output block.
So we have already seen earlier the output block when we want to display the output generated by this
random underscore string or any other random provider resource type.
So let's say this random underscore string is going to generate some random string for us having a length
20 but is not going to display.
So in case of output file, we can create another variable like another block like output, provide
some unique identification name and in case of value you can reference whatever is going to generate
and whatever you want to display in a command line output.
So random underscore string.
Now this output block in our earlier video we have introduced inside the Main.tf file, but now I am
just leaving it to you as an exercise.
You create Main.tf file having this content, but this output all the variable you want to display in
a command line prompt as output, you just keep it inside the output file and do init plan and apply.
So I'm not going ahead.
Instead of that, it is an exercise for you to go yourself.
Whatever.
Variable you want to display, just keep it inside the output file with an output block name.
All right, everyone, that's all about this video, and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Lifecycle Rules ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this video we'll see about the life cycle rule so you can configure different lifecycle rule as
a meta argument of individual resource.
Block So life cycle, you can consider it something like a one of the resource attribute.
As I told, it's a meta argument.
So there are three lifecycle rules we are going to learn in this particular video.
First one will be create before destroy.
So what happens that whenever we try to create a new resource based on the existing one, it always
tries to destroy that particular resource first and then create a new resource.
But let's say we want to enforce that.
You first create a new resource, then only destroy the older one.
How to achieve it.
We'll see.
Prevent, destroy.
You want to prevent or destroy of any particular resource.
Even if you apply this terraform destroy so you can use the prevent destroy and there will be last one.
Ignore changes.
So even if you have changed, let's say some particular tag, some particular attribute.
You don't want it to, in effect.
So let's say some database configuration resource you have already created and you don't want any other
employee in your organization to change any of the configuration or some specific configuration related
to some specific attribute.
Even if there is change, it will not be in effect.
So let's just go to our Visual Studio code and let's try to apply all these three lifecycle rule.
So let me go to my Visual Studio code.
And the first ever thing is we are going to create a new project.
Let's say it will be a lifecycle.
Let me create a new file.
main.tf.
Now here, let's create a very simple integer based resource.
Let's say I want to create a random integer between 0 to 100.
Okay.
Now suppose if I try to apply this init plan and execute.
There is no lifecycle rule as of now.
So first let me do the same thing.
Lifecycle TerraForm init which is going to download our random integer or I will say a random provider
terraform plan then.
TerraForm apply?
Yes.
Now you can see the one resource got created having ID 99.
Now, suppose instead of 100, I'll just make it 120.
Definitely.
I did some changes, so it is going to first.
Destroy this existing resource ID having a 99 and create a new resource.
So let's plan it and let's apply.
You can see first it has destroyed and then created a new resource.
But that is what we don't need.
So that's why first, let's just destroy everything.
We don't need any resources.
So as of now, there is no resource.
Now we are going to add this lifecycle rule.
Okay.
And there will be first our argument which we are going to use create before destroy.
Let's just make it true.
So that means it will create a new resource.
Then it will destroy it.
So let's just plan it.
And apply.
So as of now, there is no resource, so there is no point of destroy.
So it will just simply create ID is equal to 42.
But now with this.
The resource there is a one configuration has been attached.
One lifecycle rule create before destroy is true.
Let's say I'll just make it some 300.
So definitely I made some configuration change.
I have already one logical resource available inside memory having an ID 42.
So first it should destroy it and then it will create a new one.
But due to such rule, let's say if I apply now plan apply, you can have a look at our behavior will
be changed.
It is going to create a new resource first, see, and then it has destroy the earlier one.
So how it is going to helpful.
Let's say you are creating a new database resource already.
Some database resource are already running in cloud and you want to provision a new instance, but you
don't want to down your earlier instance data for short.
So what you say is that first you will create a new instance, then you downgrade or destroy the older
instance.
All right, let me destroy everything.
TerraForm Destroy.
Now we are going to see.
Oops.
There is some type of another lifecycle rule that is a prevent destroy.
So before that, let me comment this part.
Now, many times we have already destroyed this thing.
So it is allowing us to destroy every single thing.
Now, there is a one more lifecycle rule we are going to learn, prevent, destroy.
Let's just make it true.
Now.
Let me plan for it.
Let's apply this.
Init is not required every single time and you can see new resource got created having id to 49 or to
89.
Now suppose if I try to do destroy.
See we got error instance cannot be destroyed because.
Inside the resource Random underscore integer.
Having a name as a resource name has a life cycle rule has been set.
So if you want to destroy it, you can remove this particular lifecycle rule or you can make it false.
Okay, so that is.
Second life cycle.
Now, many times we have seen that every single time we do configuration change like mean or Max, it
is going to destroy the earlier one, create a new one or create a new one and destroy the earlier one.
But let's say even if someone changed the attribute of this min or max, it should not take into effect.
So for that there is a one more lifecycle rule.
You can make it like ignore underscore changes.
Let's say here we need to provide which are the.
Resource attribute.
You don't want it to be affected even if there is some change.
So let's say.
Min.
Okay, now, before that, let me destroy everything.
Okay.
Now we are going to plan for again.
And definitely after we do apply, it is going to create a new resource.
So resource having ID 65.
Definitely.
Let's say if I change zero to let's say some 20.
So configuration has been changed.
It should create a new resource, but it will not because of this particular lifecycle rule.
So let me plan for it.
See, there is no change, although we have already changed.
But if you try to change this, Max, it is going to create.
It will.
Take into consideration this particular chain because, Max, we haven't added here.
You can add a max also.
See no change.
So this way you can apply a different lifecycle rule created before destroy.
That means you create new resource before you destroy the old resource.
If you make it true, prevent, destroy.
If you want to prevent some resource not to be deleted, you can make this particular lifecycle rule
as two and you want to ignore some changes.
Let's say some mean and max argument you want to ignore.
Even if there is some change, you don't want to create a new resource.
All right, everyone, that is all about the lifecycle rule.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Provider Version ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So now we are going to see about the provider version.
Every single time we have downloaded this local provider, it is able to download this latest version.
And as of recording this video, the latest version is 2.1.0.
But let's say you want to download and you want to use in your configuration language some specific
version.
So in that case, there is a one more extra block at a very start of your configuration file dot file,
you can add it like a TerraForm required provider.
And for each required provider you can provide what is the source and what is the version.
Here there is a extra configuration option you can provide for your local provider.
Now for local provider, we don't need any extra configuration, but when you go to Google Cloud, there
is some extra configuration you need to provide.
If you want to see in detail, you can follow this particular link.
So let me open this one.
And you can have a look at there are a lot of operators being supported.
So you want to exit number, you can use this equal to sign.
If you want to exclude some specific version exit specific version you can use, not equal sign.
You can use greater than greater than or equal.
Less than less than equal.
That means if you provide any version which is greater than this one, any of the version above that
will be installed.
All right.
So let's go to.
Visual Studio code.
And now we are going to create a new folder.
Let's say it will be.
Provider underscore version.
Okay, now let me create.
main.tf file.
Now, instead of, let's say local, let's talk about the random one.
Okay, so let's say integer.
Now, in this particular case, first let me just do init with no explicitly defined the random provider
version which we need.
So for that let me go to provider underscore version terraform init.
So currently I think the latest version of random provider is 3.1.0.
Now if you go to our documentation.
Let me just search for TerraForm.
Random.
You can have a look at the latest version is 3.1.0.
And we have also downloaded same one.
Now, if you just click upon this dropdown, you can have a look at there are other versions are also
available.
You can see all versions from here.
See there are huge number of versions are available.
Let's say our code has already been executed by some previous developer.
Or infrastructure team.
They have already tested and our organization want it to run on some specific version 2.3.1.
So if you want to configure the same thing, you can just simply use for each provider there is a use
provider option is available.
You can copy this one.
Let me copy this one.
Let me go to my.
With this studio code.
And now instead of this 3.1.0, I'm going to use 2.3.1.
Let me save it.
And now I'm again going to do terraform init.
Oops.
There is some issue so could not retrieve the list of available version for provider lock provider.
So what we will do?
Let me destroy it first.
Although destroy one.
Effect because there is no resource being created.
There is one more thing.
We can do it.
We need to release the lock.
So for releasing lock, let's see.
Is there any.
Commands are available or not.
So release duck lock on a current workspace.
We can use this one.
Let's try it.
Force unlock TerraForm.
Expected argument Lock ID.
So how to get a lock ID?
We can go to this individual files.
Is there any lock ID?
Not sure.
Already it has downloaded this 3.1.0.
And that is just the X.
So there is one more thing.
We can do it.
We can just simply delete this two file.
So delete it.
There will be one more.
Yes, then.
Yes.
Then.
Now there is one.
More like a dot terraform.
No, we are going to delete every single thing.
Yes.
So now I think cleanse it.
We are going to use this terraform init and you can see it has started downloading this 2.30.1 version.
So this way you can specify some specific version which you need in your configuration language.
So that's all about this video and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Data Source - Read File ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this video we are going to see about the data source.
So from this local provider, many time we have used this local underscore file as a resource, which
is eventually helpful for us to create a new file plus putting some content inside the file.
But let's say instead of writing those file, we want to read this file.
So in that case you can use.
Data source.
So local underscore file reads the file from the local file system.
So this local underscore file is not a part of now resource.
It is a part of data source.
So instead of using this resource block, now we are going to use this data block.
So first, manually, we are going to create one sample, one dot txt file and a same file content we
are going to display with this output block.
So let me go to my.
With this studio code.
Let me collapse everything.
And let's say I'm just going to provide a new folder.
Data Underscore source.
Let's say I'll create main.tf.
Now we are going to use this data.
So data local file, local file.
What is the name?
Let's just keep it name.
So let's keep it name.
That's perfectly fine.
And what is the file?
So currently inside this folder we don't have any file, so I'm just going to create a new file.
Let's say some sample one dot txt and the content of this file.
We want to read it.
So this is for data source.
Now let me provide the path for this sample 1.tf.
So many times I'm giving hardcoded.
You can create a variable and also give it so it is going to read this file name and eventually.
And another exported variable will be content.
So inside the content you will get the content of a complete file.
And to display this content, we are going to use this output.
Output.
Let's say I'll just make it.
Name one.
What is the value you want to display as an output?
So definitely it will be a data dot local file.
Dot What is the name of your resource?
That is the name.
And inside that we are going to read the content.
So as a name one variable, it is going to display the value of this reference.
Now let me go back to data source TerraForm init.
So local provider latest version 2.1.0 it is going to download.
Now let me do plan.
Oops, there is some issue.
So name has been clashing.
He should not.
Let's just make it a little different name.
Let's say some foe.
And here also, I need to change foe.
Okay, Let me try once again.
Ah, yeah.
So that is not a issue with the foo.
Actually, I should not have changed it.
That is the issue with txt.
We have created the sample one dot txt not sample 1.tf.
Let me plan it.
Yes.
Now let's apply.
Yes.
So you can have a look at the name.
One variable contains a string.
This is from data source.
So from only I wrote.
That's perfectly fine.
So this is how apart from this resource, there is another block we can use data to read the content
of.
Resource.
Already existing resource.
So that's all about this video and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Google Cloud Free Trial Account ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this video, we'll see how to create this free trial Google Cloud account.
So I am already having a one standard Google account, which I am going to use it.
So to get started with creation of your Google Cloud free trial account, which is.
Going to cost you just your credit card and you will get $300 of credit to spend for the next three
months.
So if you go to Google Cloud free.
You can have a look at Google Cloud free trial.
You can get started for free.
20 plus free products, $300 of credit which you can spend for next three months as of recording this
video.
In future, they may change this thing.
Now for each product, they have provided some limit that how much amount you can use it completely
free of cost.
Okay, so let's get started.
Get started for free.
Or you can just simply sign in.
Now, if you have a Google account, you can simply use this Google account to sign in or you can create
a new Google account.
I'm going to use the account, let's say GCP.
Tutorial dot 2020 1@gmail.com.
Provide your password.
Next.
And it will redirect to the Cloud.google.com page.
Now from here you can go to console or you can just directly go to Console.cloud.google.com.
And it will pop up one sign in screen.
All right.
So what it says that let me close all this out.
We don't need.
There are few things you need to provide at a first shot.
Provide your country.
In my case, it's India.
You can always select your respective country.
Accept terms of services.
Agree and continue.
On top you can have a look at there is some notification like your free trial account is waiting.
Activate now to get $300 credit to explore.
Let's click on Try for Free.
Now there are 2 to 3 step process.
First one will be account information.
So country I have selected India.
What is the best?
Describe your organization need.
So I'm just a very simple sole trader, so I'm just going to select this for my personal project.
Or let's say we'll select a career experience getting certified.
Select all these terms of services continue.
Confirm your number.
Okay.
Account type.
So it will be an individual account type.
Provide your credit card detail.
If you want to provide your tax information, you can provide it here or just simply click after providing
your credit card.
Start my free trial.
Oops.
It's a registered individual or unregistered individual, so it's an unregistered individual.
Let me click upon Start my free trial.
So it's just setting up a billing information.
Now, depending on which credit card or a debit card you are using from which finance company, you
need to do all this verification process.
Continue.
All right.
So you can have a look at this form.
If you want to fill up, you can always fill for what purpose you are going to use.
Let me close it now.
Let me go to my home.
Let me dismiss it.
And you can have a look at our Google Cloud free trial account is ready.
How we can see.
We can go to billing from our hamburger menu.
And you can have a look at now I have a $300 equivalent credit available in my own country currency
and.
I am having a 91 days remaining.
So as of recording this video, it's currently 19th September.
So on 19th December, it is going to expire.
All right, everyone.
So let me refresh the whole page.
And on top also, you will get the same information, which I just want to show you.
Knobs because yeah, we got so free trial status.
You have this much credits are available with 91 days remaining with a full account access.
Let me dismiss it after this.
You need to pay for it.
All right, everyone.
So that's a very simple two step process.
Provide your credit card information and some account information and bank on.
You can easily get started with a Google Cloud account that's all about this video.
And I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Google Cloud Project - Service Account ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So let's first set up a GCP project and service account inside the project, which eventually we are
going to use it for as a credential inside our TerraForm script.
So let me go to my cloud console.
And first ever thing is let's just go to browser.
Go to console.cloud.google.com.
Provide your credentials.
It will be a GCP had a multiple email ID of similar name, so I'm going to continue with the GCP tutorial
dot 2021 at gmail.com.
Next, provide your password and it will redirect you to.
Oops.
Our dashboard.
So this is the one project I have created for my practice purpose.
Apart from that, I have just one project.
My first project.
So first, everything.
We are going to create our brand new project, which eventually we are going to use throughout this
whole course.
So let me create a new project from here.
Let's say it will be a TerraForm GCP.
Okay, that's good enough.
And this is the project ID it is going to generate.
And this project ID you just cannot change later.
So let me create it.
In Google Cloud platform, everything comes under the umbrella of projects.
All the resources you are going to create, it has to be part of one project.
So now onwards we are going to deal with this TerraForm GCP project.
And for that you can have a look at this is our project ID.
This is the project name that is just for the display purpose and is the project number.
So project ID is important.
We are going to use it.
Apart from that, we need some service account.
Now service accounts are a little different compared to your standard Google account.
Every single API call we can make through this particular account also.
But in production, that is definitely not recommended one.
So that's why a service account and this service account is mainly used for interacting with application
to application.
So that is for not a human user, that is for the non human user.
So how to create a service account?
You can just simply search for service account.
Yeah, you can directly navigate from here.
Otherwise you can go to navigation menu.
Let me go to Im and I am going to have here.
Service account.
Now, there is one important thing about the service account Why we need to go with the service account
name.
So I'm just going to create a new service account.
Let's say it will be a TerraForm hyphen GCP.
So it will create a service account.
Having a name TerraForm hyphen, GCP.
And this is the big domain name.
You can have a look at TerraForm hyphen GCP and this is nothing but our project id dot m dot g service
account.com.
If you want to provide some description.
So this is for.
TerraForm script.
Okay.
We can create and continue or I can just simply make it done.
We are not going to grant this service account access to any particular project or to any other service
account or to any other user.
So let me create it.
And there is no role we are going to even assign as of now.
So let me press then as and when we will use a different Google Cloud services will keep introducing
or assigning a new role to this particular service account.
So this way we will learn about the Iam identity and access management also in a detailed manner.
All right, everyone.
So that is about the how to set up your Google Cloud project plus service account.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Google Provider & version ---

All right, everyone.
So now let's see about the Google Cloud provider.
So in TerraForm, we have a multiple providers are available, and through this provider, we can interact
with a different public cloud, like for AWS, for Azure, for Google Cloud.
There are different providers are available.
Now, this particular course for us, it's a Google Cloud centric.
We are going to learn about how to create a different resource inside the Google Cloud.
So for that we are going to use a Google Cloud provider.
So so far we have used just the two provider.
One is local provider and another one is our random provider and one of them is just interacting with
the files.
Another one is simple logical provider, which is going to generate some randomness inside your configuration
language, or I would say inside your TerraForm script.
Now we are actually going to interact with the Google Cloud and for that we need a Google provider.
So Google provider help us for infrastructure provisioning inside the GCP from your TerraForm script.
If you want to see in detail, you can follow this particular link.
So let me go to.
This link.
And you can have a look at this.
The Google provider, as of recording this video, the latest version is 3.85.0.
So mostly with this latest version, we are going to work.
So that is a nice documentation has been given.
How to get started with your Google Cloud platform.
Some guide How to set up a Google Cloud Project account.
Putting all those credentials, everything so you don't worry.
We'll see all of them.
And for each service you can have a look at either it's a Apigee app engine, BigQuery binary authorization.
Lot of lot of services.
Cloud Run, Cloud SQL, Compute Engine and Networking Dataflow Dataproc.
For each services, there is a already resource type being created inside this Google.
Provider.
So how we are going to get started with that?
So on the right hand side, you can have a look at there is a use provider, so you can just simply
use this one.
And start working upon it the same thing.
I kept it inside our slide also so you can have a look at this one.
So earlier they were working with adding 3.84 version.
Now they have just now released 3.85 version.
So that is the TerraForm Block where you are going to configure which provider you need.
We need Google provider.
If somehow some case in future, we need a local provider.
Also, we can give reference of local provider also here with some specific version.
Now to each individual specific provider.
Like in this particular case we have a Google provider.
So with this provider block, you can provide all the configuration or bare minimum configuration you
require to get started with your.
Google Cloud.
So for Google Cloud, definitely.
What are the things you require?
So first thing is you need to configure project under which project you are going to create your resource.
And there are some arguments like a region and zone.
So at a first shot only you are going to set it this particular region and zone.
So even if you don't supply while creation of any resource, it will take those region and a zone argument
from here.
Apart from that, we'll put here a credential also.
So don't worry later we'll see.
First ever thing we are going to just simply provide this to block and simply get started with your
Google Cloud from TerraForm script.
So let me go to my.
Vscode and what we can do.
I was thinking that we'll just skip all this thing in a one single folder, like a basics, and we are
going to create a new folder which is a Google.
And inside this or I would say GCP basics.
That means all TerraForm basics will just keep it here.
So is there any way we can move everything from here?
Can I drag and drop it?
Yes, it is possible.
No.
Yeah, there are some lock.
Unable to move data source into a basics.
Yeah, that is just because this command line part.
Let me come out everything from here.
Let me just drag and drop and put it into basic.
Yes.
Done.
Now there are a lot of other.
So.
Yes.
Done.
So everything comes under basics.
Now, there will be one more folder I'm going to create.
Oops.
Not inside the basic, but that will be equivalent to basics.
And that will be, let's say we'll call it GCP.
Okay, so all those GCP related TerraForm scripts, we are going to keep it here.
And first everything is we get started, get started with GCP.
All right, let me create a new file.
Let's say main.tf.
So currently there is one single project only exists and here I'm going to keep it this.
Google provider information.
So let's just simply copy from here.
And put it here.
All right.
So the specific configuration to this Google provider, we'll see later.
We have just added a Google provider having a source and specific version.
And this is the two block we are going to keep using for every single script because that's a bare minimum.
One is version specific and another one is a Google provider configuration.
As I told, it's a project information.
Joan Information and region information.
So let's just do init.
Let me go to.
DF workspace.
Now it will be a GCP and first ever thing is get started with GCP.
Very first project inside the GCP terraform init and you can have a look at it.
Just started downloading the latest version of Google provider plugin with the version 3.85.0.
All right.
So successfully got downloaded, but there is no resource because we haven't still configured.
So that is all about the this video.
In the next video, let me go to my slide.
We are going to see how to connect with this GCP because still we haven't added any kind of authentication.
So that from this TerraForm script we can connect to whatever projects we have created.
So in the next video we will see what are the different options are available.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Connect Terraform with GCP - I (username/password) ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Connect Terraform with GCP - II (Cloud Shell VM) ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in the last video we have seen one of the ways from our local machine how to authenticate this TerraForm
script with Google Cloud account.
Now we are going inside the Google Cloud and we have already provided one virtual machine, a by default
virtual machine, a cloud shell.
So through this cloud shell, we will see how to authenticate with Google Cloud platform to create a
new resource.
Now, we are not going to write our code inside our local machine.
Instead of that, we are writing this code inside the Google cloud itself and from one of the resource
of Google Cloud, we are creating another resource inside the Google Cloud.
So let me go to my cloud console and open a cloud shell.
You can go to top right corner and activate a cloud shell.
Next thing is same.
Okay, Let me continue with the shell.
From this vscode we are going to copy the same code.
And inside this particular machine already TerraForm is installed, so you do not need to worry about
anything.
Before that.
You can have a look at the default project currently being set for us.
So that's another beautiful thing.
Let me keep p S1 is equal to dollar.
So why That is because we just need a more real estate.
Let me make it big screen and let's first verify whether TerraForm is available or not.
Yes, TerraForm is available.
And what it says that your version of TerraForm is outdated, but that's perfectly fine for our one
single demo.
Okay, TerraForm is installed, so let's create our main.tf file directly here.
Or let me make a.
Some directory, let's say GCS.
Main.tf.
Let me paste the complete code.
Oops.
This is not what we want to paste it.
We want to paste this code.
But the important part here is authentication.
See?
No change.
Yeah.
There is one thing we need to worry about.
So that is nothing but a bucket name.
This nano editor always creates issue here, so let me open it in a another.
Editor VI.
Yeah, that's better.
Okay, so bucket name has to be globally unique, so we just cannot use the same bucket name.
So what I'm going to do, let me insert and bucket from TF and I'm going to use this cloud cell.
Okay.
Escape colon WQ So it will save it.
Let's just verify whether our newly added content got saved or not.
Yes, done.
Let me clear the screen.
And first ever thing is again terraform in it.
So download it our Google provider plugin having a version 3.85.0
TerraForm plan.
Authorized because it just started.
Making requests to the Google Cloud platform.
Then now I want to fire a gcloud auth list which I have shown you in a last video from our local machine.
But this gcloud command line utility is by default installed inside this Google Cloud SDK.
So you can see currently the authorized account with this cloud shell is GCP tutorial 2021 at gmail.com
and with this account only earlier also we have authenticated.
So if you go to right hand side corner, you can see currently we have logged in with this account and
to this account already we have a resource creation access, like a complete access to create any resource
inside the Google Cloud platform.
So back on, let's just go ahead and let's see whether it works or not.
TerraForm apply.
Yes.
Bang on.
You can see one resource got created.
Let me minimize my cloud shell and let's just refresh it.
Yes, our newly created bucket is available bucket from TF, but now this time we have created from
the cloud shell.
Now why we do not need to worry about any kind of authentication from this cloud shell.
Because.
Because by default inside this cloud shell one of the account.
GCP tutorial 2021 is already authenticated.
All right.
So that is the second way.
Now, in the next video, we are going to see a third way.
That is the service account way and definitely that's the preferred one in a production.
So third part we will see in a next video.

--- Connect Terraform with GCP - III (Service Account) ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
In this video, we will see a third way to connect to your TerraForm script with GCP, and that is through
a service account way.
So we have already created a layer one service account or TerraForm GCP, which we are going to use
it.
And to authenticate we need to generate some key we need to create some keys from this service account
and via this key only we can authenticate ourself with the GCP account.
So that is definitely a preferred way in production.
These are two are not preferred way to create a resource inside the GCP.
So to this account, already there is no role has been assigned.
So slowly, slowly will keep adding or assign new role based on the services which we require to provision.
So let me first go to my cloud console.
And currently we have two buckets are available.
Now let me go to my VS code and here the same code we are going to use it, but we won't change anything
here.
Instead of that, let's just do one thing inside this GCP.
Let me create another one.
Let's say.
Hot with service account.
Okay, that's good enough.
Okay, let me copy this.
Main.tf.
Now, let me close every single thing and let's see what are the required changes we need to do.
Let me collapse this one and main.tf.
So here everything will remain as it is.
We need to provide one credential here.
So credential file.
As of now, we don't have any files.
So we are going to generate this file from our service account.
And this bucket name has to be globally unique.
So we are going to use bucket from TF using service account.
Okay, that's good enough.
So to generate this credential, let's go to cloud console.
And first thing is we are going to do an admin.
Let me go to my service account in another tab.
So this is the service account which we are going to use it.
And currently there is no keys being generated through this service account.
So let me click upon this three dot and.
We are going to manage keys.
Let me add new keys or create new keys.
Now, there are two ways you can generate these keys, Json or a P12.
What they say is that download this key and which contains a private key and store this file securely
because this key cannot be recovered once it is lost.
So that means if you lost this key, that means you need to generate a new key.
You just cannot recover the earlier one.
So Json way we are going to go ahead.
Let me create it.
Bang on.
Then it is downloaded one Json file.
Let me go inside this.
So this is the file.
It has created.
Let me change the name of this file.
So let's say we'll just simply make it keys dot Json and we will be keep using this keys dot json file.
For our rest of the GCP project.
And with this credential only, we are going to work ahead.
So let me.
Okay, how to copy it?
I can simply drag and drop.
To this.
Yeah.
Done.
So it has already opened also.
So you can see this is the service account key file some information like a project ID, private key
client email address, client ID has been given.
This is the important one.
Our private key.
So this is a very big one.
Through this only, we are going to authenticate from this service account to the Google Cloud platform.
Let me close it.
And now as a part of credential, I'm going to supply this one.
Keys dot Json.
So one extra argument inside this provider block we have added.
So adding all configuration has been done and now we are going to create this Google Cloud storage bucket
from our newly created service account.
But it's not going to work.
So I would suggest you please pause the video for a second and just think about why it is not going
to create this bucket for us, but for.
Us.
Let us go ahead and let us see what else we will get.
So hot with service account.
Let me clear it.
Oops.
Clear.
Will work on a Linux machine.
This is the Windows machine.
Okay.
Let's go ahead with our usual terraform init because we are inside a new project or I would say a new
folder.
Bang on.
TerraForm plan.
Yes.
And TerraForm apply.
Yes, Yes, we got her.
So you can see to this particular service account.
This which the one which we have created doesn't have a storage bucket or create access.
Now we can create a TerraForm script to give access, but we haven't learned any of the things related
to Google provider as of now.
So what we will do, we'll let me copy this service account name and to this service account we'll provide
a relevant access from the cloud console itself.
Because while learning in a very early stage, you need to keep using this.
Google cloud console.
So let me go to Im.
And currently, if you just search here.
No, no result found.
That means there is no role assigned to our service account.
So let me add it now.
Same thing what I'm doing from this Google cloud console.
You can do it via TerraForm script also.
So when we learn about Iam module in via this TerraForm script, we'll see how to assign the same role
via TerraForm script.
But for now, let's just go ahead with our Google Cloud console and storage role.
So Google.
Cloud storage.
Do we have a cloud storage?
Now why?
I am going to go with this way.
I'll tell you.
Storage.
And for now, let's just provide a storage admin.
We can even provide the complete admin kind of role also.
So from basic, let's just provide the full owner access or full editor access, but that is definitely
not recommended in a production environment.
So as and when we learn about the different services, we will keep assigning a new role to this service
account.
So Google says that.
Principle of least privileges.
So you just provide or assign a bare minimum role which user require.
To interact with the Google Cloud platform.
For now, we are going to create a simple bucket, so I will just provide a storage admin.
I could have provided even little minimum role also, but that's perfectly fine.
Let's go ahead with the storage admin.
At least you can understand that with this storage admin role, this TerraForm service account can now
create a bucket inside the Google Cloud platform.
So now let me go to VS code.
Let me clear the screen and let's apply once again.
Yes.
And you can see it just work.
Now how we can verify.
We can go to our cloud console, Google Cloud storage.
Let me refresh it.
Yes.
So we have created three bucket bucket from TerraForm using service account earlier.
We using a username and password and we have done via cloud shell also from TerraForm script.
So there are three different ways we have authenticated our TerraForm script with a Google Cloud platform.
Throughout this whole course we are going to see a third way service account way and will keep assigning
a new role based on which service we want to provision it.
And one last thing for this authentication, we have added one meta argument like a credential and this
Json file, a keys file we have downloaded from.
Our service account.
All right, everyone, that is all about this video.
And I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Approach to Resource Provision ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So now that everything has been set up, we have successfully authenticated from our TerraForm script
to the Google Cloud platform multiple ways we have seen one of the ways service account plus keys credential
we are going to use throughout this whole course.
So we have learned about the TerraForm basics.
Google provider Static now at the heart of the course will start like how to provision a different services
and resources inside the Google Cloud platform.
So there is some common approach we are going to follow for all services.
We are going to provision inside the GCP infrastructure.
So that's why it's a very small video I have created like how we are going to approach to provision
resource inside the GCP.
First ever Thing is I will tell you or I'll explain you what this individual resource will do.
Let's say compute engine, what it does next one will be from cloud console on the manually.
We are first going to provision this resource rather than directly using the TerraForm script and that
is the best way to learn about resource provisioning inside the GCP or any other public cloud first.
Next one will be a same resource with little different way we are going to create from TerraForm script
with a minimal argument, but at least we have to provide all mandatory required arguments.
So that is the third one.
And the fourth one will add more argument to customize more our resources.
So that is the common four step procedure we are going to follow to learn every single services, whether
it's a database provisioning or any compute engine, Kubernetes engine, some serverless products or.
Storage products or Pubsub.
Google Cloud Bigtable.
BigQuery or any resources or services will provision.
This is the fourth step.
We are going to follow what this resource will do.
Resource provisioning directly from the cloud console.
Then we'll jump to the TerraForm script to create the same resource with minimal argument.
Later, we'll add more arguments inside it, even if it is an optional argument.
All right, everyone.
So I hope you are excited.
From the next section, we'll get dive into a one very simple Google Cloud storage services.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Getting started with Cloud Storage ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So let's discuss about one of the storage solution available inside the Google Cloud platform.
A Google Cloud storage sort acronym is GCS.
So what is Google Cloud storage?
First, we'll get an idea about what Google Cloud storage is.
Then we'll see how to provision buckets and how to upload the object inside this Google Cloud storage
via cloud console first.
Then we'll move towards the TerraForm.
So Google Cloud storage.
It's an object storage solution available inside the GCP.
You can store any kind of unstructured data here.
So data like an image data, video data or binary data or any kind of data you can simply store here.
So there is no specific restriction to store any specific kind of data.
It's like a very dumb storage.
You can put anything inside the Google Cloud storage.
Now this Google Cloud storage can be used for long term archival storage because it's one of the cheapest
storage available inside the GCP environment.
And you can access the individual object what you uploaded inside the GCS environment.
Google Cloud Storage environment via Http Rest API.
So what we'll do Without much further ado, let's just see in action how to use this Google Cloud storage
via cloud console.
So if you go to your Google Cloud console currently I am inside our TerraForm GCP project.
So let me go from navigation menu.
We have a storage.
So Google Cloud storage.
Everything comes under the umbrella of Bucket and you can have a look at in the last section.
We have already created few buckets from here.
So let me show you how we can create a bucket and how we can upload object inside the bucket from cloud
console only and afterwards equivalently same thing we are going to repeat via TerraForm script.
So let me create a new bucket.
Now the name of this bucket has to be globally unique.
It just cannot clash with any other bucket exists in a GCS or I would say GCP environment.
So this is the TF course
bucket from.
Cloud console.
Yeah, that's good enough, I think.
Let's go ahead.
All right.
Now you need to select.
There are two things.
And all this thing we are going to see from the TerraForm script perspective also, and that is what
our main objective in this particular course.
So location type, you want your buckets to be available in a multi region.
So there is multiple regions where you can store it like a European Union.
We have a United States, so US and we have a Asia Pacific.
So any region inside the Asia Pacific, it will store it.
You can go with the dual region also.
So your data will be stored in a dual in the sense there is a two region, so there are only few options
are available.
So if you are in a, let's say, Asia-Pacific and you want to store your data in a Tokyo, so you are
getting dual region, little high availability compared to regional storage.
And if you go to regional, definitely your data will be having a lowest availability and some particular
region.
So let's say we will go with the.
Asia, Southeast one, let's say Singapore and the regional availability continue.
Next one is default storage class.
So first we have selected a location.
Next one will be a storage class.
So we have four storage classes available.
Standard Nearline Coldline When you go from standard to Near-line to Coldline.
Your data storage costs will decrease, but your data access cost will increase.
So for us, let's just continue with the standard one that is best for the short term storage.
But when you want to frequently access your data, your data access frequency will be very high.
You need to select the standard one.
But let's say your data access frequency is going down once in a month or once in a quarter.
You need to select nearline or coldline.
Now in that case, nearline coldline or archive compared to standard, you will have a you need to pay
lesser for storage cost.
Let's continue with the standard one.
Next one will be you want to enforce this public access prevention on this bucket?
No.
So if you select this option, that means publicly this bucket just simply cannot be accessed.
But we want to access it and access control.
You want uniform level access for all objects inside the Google Cloud storage bucket or you want fine
grained access.
That means you want to specify the access for each individual objects available inside the bucket.
Let's continue with the uniform one.
Let me continue.
And the encryption.
So by default, it's a Google managed encryption key.
And if you want to go ahead, you can go ahead with a customer manage encryption key.
But we haven't created any encryption key inside this Google.
CMS service.
So we will continue with the Google manage encryption key and any retention policy.
If you want to set it, let's say you want to retain object for.
Next, the maybe 24 hours.
24 days.
So maybe there is no hours.
So days.
So we can keep it in a one day or maybe, let's say two days.
All right.
And let me create it.
But I don't want to put retention policy as of now.
Okay.
Now moment you put retention policy, you just cannot delete this thing for next two days.
So let me create it.
But before that, let me add some label label.
Also we are going to add from TerraForm script.
Let's say this particular bucket we are going to create for testing purpose.
So I'll just keep it like a environment and testing, let's say one more label, like a department which
we are going to, who is going to use this particular bucket, let's say some billing department and
let's create our bucket.
All right.
So our bucket got created, of course, bucket from cloud console.
So if you go to configuration.
All the configuration which we have selected that appears here, like region created when when it got
updated.
What is its location?
A default storage class currently it's a standard.
Definitely you can change it from standard to near line to coldline to archive.
We have a labels.
What is Gsutil?
So uniquely identifying your bucket.
Access control.
We have selected the uniform and public access.
Currently there is no encryption type, so by default, it's a Google managed encryption key.
Next one will be permission retention.
We haven't set it.
Later we'll set it and we have a life cycle.
So let's do one thing.
Let's just upload some file inside it.
So I'm just going to upload one file.
Let's say we'll go to download.
Do I have any file?
Yeah, I have a key dot json file.
Yeah, but that is not what I am expecting.
So let me go to some backup of mine.
And I have multiple images are available here.
Yeah.
There is a horse dot jpeg file, so let me upload it.
So upload got started.
And horse dot jpeg appears here.
So currently it's not public.
So publicly one just cannot access it.
But if you go inside there is an authenticated URL for each individual object you will get it.
So let me just click upon it.
And you can see the horse dot jpeg, which I have just now uploaded, appears here.
So we have successfully uploaded individual file.
So you can see there are a lot of things we have done like creation of bucket and there are lots of
configuration parameters we have set.
There is a lifecycle we haven't set it, but later we'll set it and retention also.
So whatever we have done so far, let's try to apply via TerraForm script.
So in the next video we'll see how to create this bucket, how to set all this configuration option,
and slowly we'll move towards the permission change, how to set the retention policy and how to add
a lifecycle rule.
All right.
I'll see you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Google Cloud Storage with Terraform - I ---

All right, everyone.
So in the last video, we have grabbed a basic knowledge about what Google Cloud storage is, how to
create a bucket and how to upload an object.
Now, the same thing we are going to achieve with this TerraForm script.
But before that, let me go to our documentation for our.
TerraForm Google provider and let's see what are the resource type, which we are going to use so you
can just simply search.
TerraForm Google go to very first link.
And on the left hand side you will be able to see there are huge number of resource types are available
inside the Google provider.
See?
So let me just search for cloud storage.
And you can have a look at good amount of resource type are available like a Google storage bucket,
access control.
Google storage bucket.
So one which we are going to use first is Google Storage Bucket.
And you can always have a look at the documentation if you don't get anything related to some particular
attributes.
So there are some mandatory arguments, there are some optional arguments, and there will be one more
like a Google storage bucket object that will be used for uploading object.
Okay.
So let's just get started with a very first one.
Although earlier also we have created the same bucket.
But let me go to my Visual Studio code and create a new project related to G cs.
So let me create a.
New folder.
Let's say I'll give the name GCS or Google Cloud Storage.
Now let me keep all the files.
Main.tf.
Then.
Keys, Dot Jason.
Let me copy it.
And keep it inside the GCs.
Yes, Then.
Now what?
First thing we are going to do is we are going to put all this information in another file that would
be better.
And here, neat and clean.
Only resource creation will keep it.
So let me create a copy and the same file I will just copying it.
Let me rename it to the provider.tf.
Okay.
And inside from the main file I'm just going to remove everything.
So here we'll just keep it all the resource creation.
So let's just verify TerraForm, Google provider 3.85 version keys, dot Json.
And from here, let's just remove the resource keys dot Json we are going to use for credential.
And this is our project.
So for every single services or resource creation inside the GCP, we are going to continuously using
a to file in common keys, dot Json and a provider dot and our code will remain in a main.tf.
Okay.
So first ever thing is we need to create a bucket so resource and you can have a look at after installing
this new.
Extension.
Now there is a nice suggestion we are getting.
So first ever thing is google underscore storage bucket.
Oops.
Google underscore storage bucket.
So I think this is the one which we are looking for.
Yeah.
Google storage bucket.
Let me make fonts a little bigger.
Yeah, that's good enough.
Now, if you click anywhere inside this particular block and control and space, there is a good amount
of suggestion you will get.
So all the mandatory or I would say required resource attribute and optional resource attribute will
be listed here.
And along with every single one there is a data type also given see connection.
So block you need to keep course.
So list of values count.
It's like a number depends upon set of references in the form of.
List encryption, sub log of list C life cycle.
So it's like block.
So first they were mandatory and required resource attribute will be name.
Okay.
And let me go to my cloud console.
So earlier we have given the name, of course, bucket from Cloud console.
Now let me open the same page in another tab so we can continuously monitor for our newly created bucket.
So in the second tab we will monitor for our newly created bucket.
And in the first one we are going to monitor for our bucket, which we have created in earlier videos.
So let me just simply put the same name, but definitely it has to be globally unique.
So instead of from cloud console, let's use it from TerraForm.
All right.
Now, this is the.
Now this is the required argument.
Apart from that, there is a good amount of argument you can supply it.
So let's just observe from argument reference for the resource type Google underscore, storage, underscore
bucket.
Let's say there are few one which we are going to set it now only.
So name is the required argument and we have already kept it.
If it is not globally unique, it will throw us error that it just cannot create this new bucket.
But that's perfectly fine.
We'll address it later once we get error.
Next one will be important.
One project one definitely.
If you if you are creating this particular bucket in some other project, you need to provide it.
If you do not provide it by default if you go to provider.tf.
Here we have already given a provider block where project ID has been given.
So if you don't provide this project at this particular level, it will create this bucket inside the
project ID which is listed inside this provider.tf.
Okay, so we are not going to go ahead with.
Any project.
Now, apart from Project ID, there is a two important thing which we are going to set it now.
Only one is location and another one is a storage class.
So storage class can be standard multi-regional regional nearline coldline or archive what we will do.
Let me select a storage class as a standard one.
Now don't worry about auto completion.
This will be auto completed automatically.
See Storage class.
What is the value you require?
So let's just keep it as standard one.
And another important one is location.
So if you want to see all the location, you can go ahead with the GCS location.
So let me open it in a another tab.
So all this bucket location, let's say regional level, let's say this particular bucket we are going
to create in a US central one.
So another resource attribute which we are going to set is the location.
Let me set location us central one.
Okay.
So that is a good enough to go ahead later.
There are a lot of attributes.
We are going to change it.
So let me go to
GCP, GCS and TerraForm.
In it.
TerraForm plan.
Then there is a one bucket or I would say one resource that is going to create name we have already
supplied.
Yeah.
So there is one thing I should not keep here named.
It's very much confusing.
So let's say we'll keep it like a GCS one and let me do plan again.
Yes.
So now it will be a GCS one.
And there are three arguments we have already supplied.
Now let's just apply it.
Yes.
And I think it's working.
Yeah.
It has created a new bucket after three second.
Let's go to Cloud Console and verify it.
So let me refresh.
Yes.
So of course, bucket from TerraForm.
Now, earlier also we created this bucket, I think this bucket, we don't need it.
So I'm just going to delete it for now.
Otherwise it will just keep creating confusion.
Let me delete it.
All right.
So now you can have a look at the location is US Central one and there are a lot of configuration is
by default set.
But definitely there are a lot of configuration.
We can change it.
If you go inside, you can always observe everything from this configuration.
So more on how to update this configuration for this particular bucket, how to upload objects retention
lifecycle in a next and upcoming couple of videos.
We'll see.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Google Cloud Storage with Terraform - II ---

All right, everyone.
So let's continue our discussion on Google Cloud storage from TerraForm Script.
All right.
So now you can have a look at for this particular bucket, which we have created in the last video from
TerraForm Script.
These are the configuration and there is a good amount of configuration.
You can edit it, you can change it.
So first, everything is location.
You cannot edit it location type, you cannot edit it.
But default storage class is currently standard one, so you can definitely make it near line coldline
or archive.
Let's do one thing one by one.
Majority of option.
We'll see how to edit inside it.
So default storage class is currently a standard one.
Let's just make it near line.
So instead of standard, let me make it near line.
Okay, Let me apply again.
Yes, there is a one change, one attribute.
You are going to update it from standard to near line.
Yes.
And it has modified.
Now, let me refresh it and you can observe a default storage class.
See, it becomes a new line.
Labels.
We haven't added any kind of label for this particular bucket.
Let's add some label.
So label information you can provide as a map of string.
So this way you can provide it here.
Let's say here also we'll provide some label like environment tf.
Env that's good enough.
There will be one more label.
Let's say it will be department.
Now this particular bucket, let's say some department like a compliance is going to use it.
So this way you can provide the label information as a map object.
Let me apply.
You can have a look at every single time we are updating a new attribute.
It is not creating a completely new bucket and do all those modification due to this TerraForm State.
It is able to track.
It has already created this GCS one resource and it just needs to update this particular resource.
So now let's observe it.
So currently there is no label.
Let me refresh it see tf underscore env and department is compliance.
Okay.
Access control.
So currently it's a fine grained you can make it uniform also.
So there is a one resources uniform, bucket level access.
So let's just make it true.
So by default, it's a false.
That's why it has created a fine grained access control.
Let's just make it true.
Apply.
Yes, then.
Let's observe it.
Let me refresh.
You can have a look at now.
It's a uniform level axis.
So this way you can change the attribute.
And the last one will be a Google manage encryption key.
But we are not going to convert it into customer manage encryption key because in that case you need
to create a valid key in a Google Cloud KMS.
So let's just continue with the Google manage encryption key.
Okay, now let's go to permission.
So currently you can have a look at the permissions are uniform level access.
So that's why.
It is suggesting us to switch to the fine grained.
If you go to objects, there is no object, so let's just upload some object inside it.
So to upload an objects, we have to use another resource block and that will be resource Google underscore.
Storage.
Oops.
Underscore bucket underscore object.
Let's say some picture.
We want to upload it.
Okay.
And what are the minimum or required arguments for it?
So for that, go to documentation and let me open.
Google Cloud storage object in another tab.
Let me close this bucket location.
So this is the required argument bucket and a name because the name with which you want to keep your
object.
So definitely it's a mandatory thing and bucket.
Under which bucket you want to upload it.
If you don't provide any bucket name how one can get idea that where it needs to be uploaded.
So this is the two required argument.
Let's just keep both of this argument first.
So let's say name
or what?
We are going to upload it.
So let me go to my download folder.
Do I have anything?
Let's say I have one logo.
Yeah, Vodafone logo.
So let me copy it.
Same file.
We are going to upload it.
Oops, this is difficult to copy this way.
So let me.
Yeah.
Vodafone logo appears here.
Now, let me give the name like a Vodafone underscore logo.
Okay.
And another argument will be bucket.
How we are going to give the reference for this particular bucket.
Let me collapse this one.
So you will have a more idea.
Let me remove this extra space.
Okay.
So Google Cloud storage, GCS one and definitely there is a name.
Or you can provide ID So this way Google Cloud or Google Storage Bucket dot GCS one.
So first one will be resource type.
Many times we have done this earlier also then a GCS one that is the unique resource name and how we
are going to identify.
So that will be a name.
Okay, so both are the mandatory thing and we have.
Provided.
Next one will be definitely some file information you need to provide which file you want to upload
it so with which resource type we are going to upload it.
So definitely a path to the data which you want to upload.
So that is nothing but a source.
So let's use the source as a Vodafone dot Jpeg and you can have a look at there is a good amount of
other option.
Also, you can configure it yourself.
Source.
Okay.
Let me go to VS code and source source will be definitely a Vodafone dot jpeg.
Vodafone dot jpeg.
All right.
I think this is sufficient option.
Let me open my terminal.
Yeah.
Terminal available.
Let's apply it.
TerraForm.
Let me do plan first.
So one resource that is going to add it because now we have added another resource block, that is to
upload an object.
Let me apply it.
Yes.
All right.
So I think within just a matter of one second, it is able to upload it how we can verify.
So we are inside our bucket.
Let me refresh.
Yes, Vodafone logo is available and a default storage class is near line.
All right.
So these are some of the attributes of individual objects which we have uploaded.
Okay.
So now we have uploaded the objects.
Now there is a permission configuration we have seen.
There is a two more like a retention and life cycle.
So in the next video, we'll see both of them how to set the retention policy and how to add a lifecycle
rule.

--- [Hands-on] Google Cloud Storage with Terraform - III ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So now we are going to add a lifecycle rule.
Lifecycle rule says that let's say after some time, based on some condition, you want to change the
storage class for your objects inside this bucket.
You can do it.
So you can create a new rule.
And for that, first, we are going to create this rule from our cloud console only.
And for that we have other bucket is also available.
So let me go to Lifecycle.
Let me add new rule.
I just want to show you how you can add it.
Let's say I want to set.
A storage class for each object inside my bucket will be archived mode based on which condition.
So let's say if it is ten days old.
So there are a lot of condition.
You can define it like if all objects created before some particular date, let's say some 1st June
2021 will select it.
So all the objects which created before 1st June 2021.
We'll have action.
This one will be set to archive.
So this way you can set a condition.
Apart from that, there are a lot of other conditions also being set, like a storage class matches.
If number of newer version for your individual object, let's say it is greater than three, you can
set it.
Let's just continue with the simple age one and let me create a new lifecycle rule.
All right.
So we have set to archive if the age of object is ten plus days.
So automatically all storage, all buckets, storage class will be converted to archive mode.
Now the same thing how we can achieve.
Via TerraForm script.
And for that, first of all, we have to go to documentation.
And inside the documentation let's just search for life cycle.
Yeah.
So you can define this life cycle rule and the detail about this life cycle rule you will get.
Yeah.
Here.
So there is some example also they are given.
So there are two things inside the lifecycle rule.
You can define you can see, first of all, lifecycle rule is not a string kind of object.
It's a block kind.
So this is the lifecycle underscore rule will be a block inside our route block like a Google underscore
storage underscore bucket.
There is a two things you can define.
One is action and one is condition.
So action, support.
Storage class into which storage class you want to set it so you can.
Delete it.
So there is a type you can define.
Like either you can delete it.
Or you can set it to some storage class.
If you keep this type as a set storage class, you need to define into which storage class you want
to convert it.
So currently all our.
Default storage class.
Inside our bucket is a near line.
Let's just convert it to Coldline.
That's good enough, I think.
So Coldline.
And there is a condition.
So for condition also there are good amount of things are available as we have seen from the cloud console
only.
So there will be h created before which state.
So let's just carry on with the h one and let's configure it inside our.
Bucket.
So how we are going to configure it.
So that will be a lifecycle rule.
Now inside the lifecycle rule, there is a two things you can set.
One is condition and another one is action.
Okay.
Inside the condition, let's say age of your object will be, let's say some five days and action what
you want to take as action.
So type, type, you can make it delete, but we don't want to delete it.
We want to convert it into code line.
So for that instead of delete, I'll just keep it like this and there will be one more like into which
storage class you want to convert after five days.
So let's say it will be a code line.
All right.
I think good enough.
Let's apply it and let's see if we get any error.
Yeah, good enough.
Let's go to Cloud console and go to Lifecycle and we need to refresh it.
Yes.
Our new role has been created set to colon five plus this.
So if the object is more than five plus days, it will be automatically set to cold line.
Now, there will be one more like a retention that for how much amount of days or how much amount of
time you want to retain your bucket.
So if you set, let's say, some three days, that means it will prevent this particular bucket from
deletion or modification for a specified minimum period after they got uploaded.
So let's just set some retention policy.
So retention policy, you can set it in terms of days, second months and a year.
How to configure it.
Let's just go to Cloud Bucket and we have a retention.
Yeah, we have a retention policy.
So retention period, you can set it in a form of two argument.
You want to lock it so by default it's false.
So is locked.
If you make it set, you need to provide the retention period also.
And this retention period, you can provide it in terms of second.
Okay, So let's configure both of them.
And there is one caution logging bucket is a irreversible action.
That means if you just lock your bucket, you just cannot reverse it.
You just cannot do any kind of modification afterwards.
But for our learning purpose, that's good enough.
So let's go ahead with the retention period.
And we are going to apply it.
Okay.
Before that, I want to show you that.
Is there any retention period?
So definitely not.
Yeah, we don't have any retention period.
Retention policy, I think.
Yeah, it's the retention policy only.
Yeah, retention policy.
But I thought it's a retention period.
Retention policy is locked.
Let's make it true.
There will be one more oops, one more argument, like a retention period.
Now retention period, you can set in terms of second.
So for how much?
How many days, how many years you want to you want to set or you want to retain your bucket.
So you have to provide in terms of second only.
So let's say some 50 days I want to retain it.
So 50 days in second.
50 days equal to this much second.
That's not a good one for us.
Let's say if I make it one.
Yeah, that's a good, I think ten days having a this much second.
So let's just configure it.
And retention period.
There is some small documentation also, given the value must be less than this 3.1 billion.
There is a very big number.
The object that in a bucket must be written and cannot be deleted.
Okay, so let's just apply and let's see.
Yes.
Yes, it worked.
So now let's observe all the changes.
Yes, you can have a look at the retention period.
Is ten days effective date.
So from this particular time, 23rd September, 7:50 a.m..
You can have a look at this is what the time is.
This is the current time.
And from this time it will be in effect from this time to next ten days.
So for next ten days, you this particular bucket is locked.
You just cannot do anything.
Now, there is one more thing.
I just want to share you that many times I do record this video in a morning time, sometimes in a 4
a.m. to 8 a.m. somewhere around.
And a lot of times you will get there is some bird chirping noise, so please don't mind it.
That's a good it's a nature stuff and it's difficult for me to avoid it.
So please bear with me.
It's a good thing in background.
Some birds are chirping, so that's good.
Please bear with me about it.
Okay.
And.
Please.
Sorry for it if you get any trouble.
But I think that's a very small noise we are getting.
Okay, so that is about the Google cloud storage.
Now you can have a look at there are many resource attributes we have.
Taken into consideration, but still there are many are left.
So I'm just leaving it to you.
Just try to play with a lot of other resources and whatever resource attribute we have use.
Try to play with this one with a different argument option also.
Okay, so that is all about the.
Google Cloud storage and Google Cloud storage bucket.

--- [Hands-on] Create VPC from Console ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this section we are going to learn about Google Cloud Network, how to provision a networking
resource via TerraForm script.
So first, let's just get an idea about what cloud network inside the GCP means.
So no network, that means no cloud.
So cloud Network are one of the very important and fundamental unit in any public cloud provider because
if you are not connected, what is the point of cloud here?
It's all about renting some remote resources for computing and storage purpose, and those thing has
to be secured.
That has to be connected with you in a secure manner.
So that's why network is important.
Now to create any resource, as I told our network is must without network, it will just simply reside
there.
Even you can't connect it.
So how you can create a resource and inside the Google Cloud network, you can create your own virtual
private network.
Now this VPC, a virtual private cloud contains a subnet.
Subnets are nothing but a logical grouping of your IP address in one single region.
So let's consider.
This is the VPC one you have created inside the project.
Everything is a part of project only where you can create multiple subnets, whatever resource you will
create inside the Google Cloud platform as a part of any project that has to be belong to some subnet.
There are some resources you will never get idea to which subnet it belongs to because they are serverless
application.
They are completely independent, but there are many resources which belongs to some region and that
is nothing but one subnet.
So vpcs are nothing but a container and a collection of multiple subnets.
Whereas subnets are a logical grouping of your IP address in one single region.
So let's say in US central one, let's say in Taiwan or maybe in London, there is a one single subnet
is available for a single region.
Not necessarily that every single region has to have a subnet.
But in VPC there has to be at least one subnet.
Otherwise there is no point of virtual private cloud.
There are three types of VPC.
You can create it inside the Google Cloud.
One is default VPC, which is being by default created when you enable a compute engine API.
Don't worry, we'll see about that.
There is one auto mode VPC where all those subnets will be created automatically and there is one more
like a custom mode VPC.
So here all the subnets you need to create manually based on your requirement.
So let's see in action how to create this VPC, how to create this subnet.
And later on, we'll see how to create the firewall policy inside this virtual private cloud.
So in this particular section, our flow will be let's first get an idea about what is this three different
types of virtual private cloud via cloud console.
Only then we'll move towards how to create the same virtual private cloud via TerraForm script.
So that is our first part.
TerraForm script and create your virtual private cloud.
Afterwards, we'll create one subnet inside our auto mode or a custom mode VPC.
Definitely in auto mode it has been already created all subnet, so there is no point of creating subnet.
So in a custom mode VPC, we are going to create our own subnet and later we'll introduce a firewall
policy that which traffic you need to allow and which traffic you need to deny it.
So for now, let's just go to our cloud console and currently I am inside my TerraForm GCP project.
Let me go to first ever thing is compute engine.
Now, we have learned about the Google Cloud storage and now we are learning about the compute engine.
All right.
So you can have a look at I'm inside currently in a compute engine VM instance page.
Now, you may think that why we are coming here.
We are learning about the virtual private cloud because if you don't have a virtual private cloud,
you just cannot create your virtual machine instance.
So that's why when you start creating your virtual machine, if the API of this virtual machine is not
unable, it will automatically redirect you to enable this API and while enabling inside the VPC network
if you go to.
Networking related products inside the VPC network.
There is a one by default VPC gets created.
You can have a look at this.
The by default VPC got created and this particular VPC has a 28 subnet for firewall rule.
So that is all by default.
Now, we are not going to rely on this default network.
Instead of that, let's create our two network.
Auto mode VPC.
And there is one more like a custom mode VPC.
So let's say auto VPC from CC, that is from the cloud console.
We are creating.
That's why.
Our next one will be subnet creation mode.
Let's just make it automated.
So for each region it is going to create one subnet for us, whether we want to add any particular firewall
rule or not.
So let me just select it and it will be automatically added.
There are two implicit firewall rule, which is by default going to get added with every single virtual
private cloud, even if you don't want to add it.
So that will be nothing but deny all incoming traffic and allow all outgoing traffic.
Okay, let's just skip all the other options as it is and let's create our auto mode VPC from the cloud
console.
So meanwhile, this particular resource will be provisioning.
Let's create another VPC network.
But now in this particular case we are going to create custom VPC, CC that is from the cloud console
and at least one subnet you must create it.
So let's say we are going to create a subnet in us if you want to provide some description.
So moment I select a us, let me select inside which region you want to create a subnet so US central
one.
Some IP address range.
So let's provide some, let's say 24.
So this is the Cidr Range.
Now whenever you create any resource inside this particular subnet, one of the IP address from this
particular range will be allocated to you.
And there is one more option like private Google access.
That means you want to allow privately access all Google Cloud, other services or not via just the
internal IP address, not external IP address.
Okay, let's just keep it off both of them and let's create our custom mode VPC from the cloud console.
All right.
So you can have a look at inside the auto VPC.
There is a 28 subnet.
So for each region there is a one subnet automatically gets created.
And this subnets are the part of auto VPC, CC And for each subnet there is an IP address range has
been assigned.
There is a for firewall rule automatically gets added.
If you see about the custom VPC, you will be able to see there will be just one subnet which we have
manually created.
Yes.
Then see just one subnet and that is in a oops custom mode.
VPC.
There is no firewall rule because we haven't added it.
So that is how one can create a virtual private cloud inside the Google Cloud platform.
Now the same thing how to achieve via TerraForm script.
So in the next video we are going to see a Google Cloud network plus TerraForm.
I'll catch you in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Create VPC with Terraform Script ---

All right, everyone.
So in this video, let's create a network inside the Google Cloud platform via TerraForm script.
So let me go to my Visual Studio code.
All right.
And let's just set up our project for network.
So for that, let me create a new folder, let's say network.
And now I'm just going to copy.
Three important file one Main.tf provider tf.
And a key dot Json.
So let me copy it.
And let me paste it inside the network.
Oops.
Along with the GCS folder it has copied.
And that is what we don't need.
Okay.
So, you know, the important thing is let's just go to reveal in File Explorer.
And from here, only I can copy it.
That's good.
In a network.
All right.
Let me collapse the remaining stuff and let's go to network part.
So we have a main.tf.
We are not going to touch upon this key dot Json or a provider dot Json.
Let's focus upon Main.tf and I'm just going to remove every single thing from this Main.tf.
Okay.
Next thing is let's go to a TerraForm documentation.
So, and let's see what are the resource type which we are going to use it.
Let me search for network and network, which is a part of Compute engine.
So we have a Google.
Compute network through which we can create.
VPC network inside the.
Google Cloud platform and there are two VPC network which we are going to create it.
All right.
You can have a look at and there is one more like a subnet creation.
So that is Google Compute sub network.
But later video, we'll see about that.
Let's just focus upon a Google Compute network.
So resource Google Compute network.
Now there are two vpcs which we are going to create.
One is the auto VPC.
So let me give name Auto VPC.
But now this is from the TerraForm.
Okay.
And the same way, another one also we are going to create that is the custom VPC from TerraForm.
All right.
Now to both of them.
We need to provide some name.
So same name we are going to use same name.
We are going to provide it.
Auto vpc tf.
And there is one.
More like a name.
All right, so name is minimum stuff.
You need to provide it.
Now how you can make individual virtual private cloud as a auto mode or in a custom mode.
So let's see which argument satisfy this condition.
So we have something like this.
Yeah, we have one like an auto create subnet.
So when you set it to true, that means network created in an auto subnet mode.
And what is the by default value?
Not sure about it, but let's just set it.
So auto create.
So auto create sub network.
Let's just make it true for auto VPC.
TF And there is one more like a auto create sub network, but let's just make it false.
All right.
Do this particular.
Are sufficient or not.
Let's just check.
Your name is only thing which is sufficient.
Remaining all parameter.
It will take into consideration by default.
Okay.
Nothing more than that we required.
There are few parameters you can later on also change it like an m2 project id so from provider only
it will take project ID and attribute reference.
So some self link it will provide that which particular VPC network it has created.
Okay.
We can go ahead.
So let me go to GCP.
Network
TerraForm init.
Done.
Let's plan for it.
But before planning, I want to display about the I think, Uri or some ID which gets created after
this resource get provisioned.
So let me display two variable.
Let's say some output.
Let's say auto variable and value.
We are going to keep it.
Like Google Compute Network auto vpc.tf dot some id okay.
Same way for custom variable also.
And instead of auto.
Okay, let me plan it.
All right.
So there are two resources.
It is going to provision it.
Let's apply why we have displayed this output because in return we will get what are the resource gets
provision.
Oops, we got some issue.
So what it says that that's the important thing.
Uh, compute network dot create permission is not there for our service account.
So our service account via service account, you just cannot create a virtual private cloud.
So let's just assign the permission.
Very simple one, because whatever we have done from here, that is through this particular account
and this is the owner for this account, so it has a complete privileges.
But for our service account.
Let me go to Iam.
Let me go to service account.
It doesn't have a sufficient permission to create a VPC network.
So let's just quickly add or assign some permission to this service account.
How to add permission.
So for that, let's just go to Im.
Okay before that.
We have to.
Go to.
All the rules.
Okay.
From the rule.
First, we need to find out that the permission for which we get this error compute network dot create
is a part of which role.
So let me search for compute network create.
And that is the part of.
There are a lot of roles possible.
What we will do.
Let's just assign a compute network admin.
That's good enough I think.
So we'll assign compute network admin.
And to whom?
So it will be.
Service account.
Let me select.
I am.
Let me add it.
And roll.
So it will be a network.
So compute network admin.
And let's save it.
So I think policy gets updated.
Let's try from our Visual Studio code again.
Let's apply.
Yes.
And you can have a look at it just started creating.
Still no error.
That means so this way to your service account, you can keep giving a bare minimum privileges or assigning
a bare minimum role.
Okay, let's go to cloud console and let's observe.
It will be finished soon.
So let me refresh.
This is always issue.
Yeah, you can have a look at wherever.
The suffix is.
TF That is what gets created from TerraForm script.
Do I have any option to automatic collapse?
No.
So let's just observe about the auto.
So in case of auto, automatically 28 subnet gets created and you can have a look at just like auto
VPC we have created here exactly with the same configuration, but not added any firewall rule because
that firewall rule addition is something like a luxury.
This cloud console will provide to us and with custom vpc, wtf is it created?
Oh yeah, it has been created because it doesn't have a subnet.
There is no option to expand it and there is no point to expand even.
Okay, so now.
How to create a subnet and how to add a firewall policy.
So in an upcoming couple of videos, we'll see how to update this custom VPC from the TF we have created
just now.
I'll catch you in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Create Subnet - Terraform ---

All right, everyone.
So let's continue our discussion on how to create this virtual private cloud subnets inside the GCP
platform via TerraForm Script.
We have created our virtual private cloud in an auto mode and in a custom mode, both from the TerraForm
script.
Now we are going to see how to add a custom subnetwork and.
In earlier videos, we have already added one subnetwork, which is in a US central one region, and
the name which we have provided is a sub US provided this particular IP address range.
Same way sub network.
Now we are going to create but that is from the.
TerraForm script and inside this another sub network Custom VPC.
TF.
So let me go to my.
Vscode.
Okay, so let's add subnetwork creation block.
So that will be a resource Google Compute subnetwork.
Okay.
And let's provide this particular time a subnetwork inside the, let's say, in Singapore.
So we'll just provide the name like sub Singapore sub SG So that is the subnetwork name.
Definitely a name is a mandatory stuff.
So here also we'll provide the sub SG.
Now this sub SG, which we have provided inside the block, that is the name.
Going to a Google Cloud platform.
And with this name, a resource will be provisioned.
Whereas this particular name is for the TerraForm.
TerraForm keeps the track of individual resources.
With some unique identifier.
Okay.
Now let's see.
What are the other mandatory parameter or a required parameter?
So for that, let's go to TerraForm documentation.
Google compute subnetwork.
And let's see what are the required one.
Okay, so IP Cidr range is required, one on network is required and a name name we have already provided.
So network definitely under which network you want to create a subnet and IP Cidr range.
So let's provide it.
So one is network.
Now how we are going to give reference to the network.
So that will be compute network custom VPC.
We have already created earlier.
Dot.
Let's see some ID and IP, Cidr range.
So Cidr range of IP, how you can provide it?
Yeah, it has to be string and you can provide it in this particular format.
Okay, let's provide something like earlier I provided ten dot zero.
Let's provide ten .1.0.0 slash 24.
All right.
An important one, another one that is a region.
So in this particular case, we are going to go ahead with the Singapore region.
So that will be Asia, South east one Asia hyphen south east one.
Okay.
Good enough, I think.
I think these are the resources.
Good enough.
It is going to create a new sub network.
Inside our virtual private cloud, which we have created earlier via TerraForm script.
So let me apply directly.
Yes.
Yeah, it's still creating.
Let's just wait for some time.
All right.
So you can have a look at our subnetwork gets created without any error.
One resource gets added.
Now, let's just go to cloud console and let's observe the changes.
So let me refresh.
So that is the custom.
And you can have a look at this, the subnetwork we have created.
If you go inside.
You can have a look at inside the subnetwork.
We have a sub SG gets created with IP, Cidr range, which we have provided.
There is one more option.
I want to show you a private Google access.
So currently it's off.
Let's say we want to make it on.
So do we have any option directly available?
Let me search here.
Yeah.
Private IP, Google access.
So currently it's off.
Let's just make it true.
And let's see whether it's able to change immediately or not.
Yes.
It's modifying a subnetwork.
Still modifying.
Yeah.
Then.
So let's just observe from here after we refresh the whole page.
Currently it's off.
It will be on afterwards.
So private Google access we are allowing inside this particular subnet.
Yeah.
You can have a look at now.
It's on.
All right.
So that is about the subnet and how you can create a subnet.
You can create a multiple blocks or you want to create, let's say.
Multiple sub network so you can use it in some kind of looping mechanism also.
So so far we have created virtual private cloud and inside the sub network.
In the next video we will see about how to create a firewall policy inside it.
I'll catch you in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Create Firewall Rule - Terraform ---

Hello and welcome everyone.
So let's continue our discussion on creating.
Networking resource via TerraForm script inside the Google Cloud platform.
So VPC is ready for us.
Subnet is ready for us.
Now let's see how to apply a firewall policy.
So first ever firewall policy.
We are going to add manually from our cloud console and all those things we are going to do via.
Custom VPC.
TerraForm.
Firewall rules.
Let's say we'll add one rule and afterwards we'll add via TerraForm script.
Let's say I want to add some allow.
80.
That means allow Http inside which network.
So that will be in a custom VPC.
TF priority.
So priority here will be from 0 to 65,535.
So higher the number lower the priority.
Lower the number higher.
The priority of this firewall rule.
You want to use this particular rule for ingress traffic or ingress traffic ingress.
That means it's an incoming traffic or ingress means it's an outgoing traffic.
We want to do it for ingress traffic.
Action on match.
You want to allow it?
For which target?
Let's say you want to allow port traffic on all instances in a network or some specified target tags
or specified service account.
Let's continue ahead with all instances in a network.
IP Ranges Source Filter.
So source also you can define in a form of IP ranges, source tag or a service account.
Let's go ahead with the IP ranges and I'm just going to continue with the all IP across the Internet.
So this particular define all IPS.
And specify port or you want to allow all port.
We want to allow just 80 number port and let's create it.
So you can have a look at still it's creating then allow it number port is.
Create it equivalently.
Same thing.
Let's just try to apply via TerraForm script.
But first of all, we have to search for which particular resource type we are going to use it.
So let me search firewall and we have a Google Compute firewall.
So here we need to provide all the information which we require to create a firewall rule.
Okay, so name and network is a required thing.
So let's just create our firewall rule with at least bare minimum stuff.
So it will be a resource.
Google Compute firewall and what firewall rule we want to create it.
Let's say we want to allow.
Some ICMP traffic.
Okay.
That's why we are going unnamed ICMP and here also name will provide like allow ICMP.
Now same thing you want to do under which network just like here also, we have provided the network
information.
Now, there is one thing I want to highlight here.
Here, virtual private cloud.
We have created in a same file subnet also we have created in a same file in a firewall code.
Also we are writing in a same file or I would say same TerraForm project.
So in that case, it is easy for you to give reference something like this.
But let's say this virtual private cloud has been already created earlier, either through some other
TerraForm script, through some other TerraForm projects or someone has created manually for you.
So in that case, definitely you just cannot give reference to this particular compute network.
In this way.
So in that case, you need to give a hard coded value.
Let's say instead of this particular network, I want to create this firewall rule inside some default
network or whatever networks we have earlier created manually via cloud console.
So you can provide it here manually.
Let's continue for now.
This way.
Okay, So these are the things sufficient, but we haven't provided any information that we want to
allow ICMP traffic through ICMP protocol only.
This ping will work.
So let's see, what are the other resource attributes and arguments are available.
So allow or deny you want to allow for traffic and which particular?
Protocol you want to allow which particular port on which you want to allow priority.
You can set it.
There is a source ranges source tag service account will go ahead with the source ranges.
So here you can provide a Cidr range target text target service account.
So target means all instances in a network will be applicable.
Okay.
So you can have a look at allow again contains two things protocol and a port which protocol you want
to allow.
Let's say ICMP ports on which port you want to allow traffic.
So we are going to go ahead with the allow block, not a deny one.
As an exercise, you can create another firewall rule which is going to deny traffic.
Okay.
So that's sufficient.
One is the allow block.
We are going to add it and think a source range from which are the source, the traffic will be allowed
inside this particular network.
So let me allow it.
Hello.
Then we have a protocol.
So protocol.
You can provide it in a form of string.
Which protocol you want to allow it.
Let's say ICMP and under running port.
But ICMP, there is no port.
So we are going to leave it as it is.
Okay.
So I think that is sufficient source range.
Now instead of writing source range this way.
0.0.
What I'm going to do, I'm going to search for my own IP address and I want to allow traffic from my
own IP address only.
So let me just search for.
What is my IP?
Oops.
So that is the IPv6 IP address it will give us.
We are interested in IPv4.
The IPv4 is checking.
Let's just wait for some time.
Anyhow, we are not going to use anywhere, but I just still want to provide to you that you can provide
this way some particular IP address slash 32.
That means all 32 bits are fixed.
Okay.
I think all our.
Required parameter and some optional is also ready.
Let's apply it.
Oops.
So strange.
A set of string is required.
So we can provide this way.
And let's go ahead.
So multiple.
Oops.
Again, there is issue.
So you can have a look at there is one more permission or role assignment we need to do compute firewalls
dot create so that is not being granted.
So let me.
Copy this one.
And in.
Let's just search for.
Let me open the roll here.
Firewall creation.
So firewall creation is a part of compute security admin.
So let's just assign one more role.
Compute security admin to our service account.
TerraForm GCP.
Let me add it.
One more compute security admin.
Let's save it.
Let's go to my Visual Studio code and policy gets updated.
Now, if things doesn't work, just wait for a couple of minutes because this policy updation and propagation
will take few minutes.
Apply.
Yes.
And you can have a look at it just started creating a new firewall rule.
So with every single services which we are provisioning from this TerraForm script, I would highly
suggest you that you keep using a different option.
For each argument, try to accommodate a new argument, which we haven't use it, or whatever argument
we have used.
Try to change the parameter of those argument and you can take it as an exercise and keep working on
it.
Keep creating a new resource and always practice makes everyone perfect.
So this way you can go ahead.
So now let's just observe whether our firewall rule is ready or not.
How we can get idea about a firewall rule.
We have to refresh the whole page.
Yes, allow ICMP.
See, now our filters are not a bigger one.
Let me go inside.
Some specific range.
So inside this particular network, whatever resource we will create, ICMP traffic will be allowed
from this IP address only.
And this is my own IP address of my own machine.
ICMP ingress traffic.
Okay, Priority 1000.
Let's just change the priority.
Does it allow to change priority?
Let's say some 455 will keep it.
So it's a modifying.
So it's modifying.
Firewall rule.
All right, everyone, let's observe all the changes.
So currently it's a thousand.
It should be 455.
After we refresh the whole page.
Yeah, then it's a 455.
So now as an exercise you can try to change the parameter like instead of allow, deny, try to allow
or deny different protocols like SSH protocol, Http protocol, https protocol, some TCP protocol.
Okay.
And on different ports like 80, 90, 90, let's say some other words you can.
Take it as a homework.
All right, everyone.
So that is all about.
How to create a firewall policy inside the virtual private cloud.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Create Compute Engine - Console ---

Hello and welcome to the new section on Google Compute Engine plus TerraForm.
So in this section we are going to learn about one of the very important and a fundamental service on
the backbone of which the whole public cloud resides a compute engine service creation of virtual machine.
Because every single other service relies on this particular service compute engine, whether you name
it, any database resources or any storage resources or you name any single service, everything is
a part of some virtual machine only.
And here we have so far learned about the networking and the same networking concept we are going to
attach while creation of compute engine.
So first of all, let us go to Cloud Console and create our first virtual machine instance and then
later on for majority of parameters, we will see how to update change or introduce some resource attribute
via TerraForm script.
So let me go to my cloud console.
And currently compute engine API is already enabled.
So let me go to compute engine.
And let's create our first compute engine instance.
Let me create a new instance.
Now here, I'm just going to provide the name VM from Cloud Console CC label.
Let's add some label, Let's say some department.
Let's say finance department are going to use this particular virtual machine.
Okay.
Next is important.
Inside the white zone, particular data center, you are going to create your virtual machine.
So for that there is a nice filter is available.
Like first you filter based on the region.
Now region is not that much important.
Let's say you select the London.
Now inside the London there is a three data centers are available indirectly.
There are three zones are available.
Europe, West2, A, B and C, So you can select the individual one.
Now, let's say if this region is not available, there is a huge list of all zones information will
be listed here and that will be difficult to select individual one.
And that's why this region is available.
We are going to, let's say, continue with the nearest to me.
Mumbai is also nearest and Delhi nearest Singapore is also nearest.
So I'm just going to continue with the Singapore one.
So that is the region selection and I think that's a a required field.
While creation of virtual machine, another one will be a machine configuration.
Now in TerraForm script might be there are some default value of machine configuration, but if you
want to select some specific machine configuration while creation of virtual machine, you need to select
this one.
So there are mainly three types of machine family configurations are available.
General purpose, compute optimized or memory optimized, let's say general purpose.
So in general purpose there are first generation, second generation machines are available.
Let's continue with the N1 series of first generation virtual machine and here also very small one we
are going to take into consideration, let's say N1 standard one.
If you go to compute optimized equivalently different configuration, you will get like 30 virtual CPU
and 120 gigs of Ram.
Also you can get it for memory optimized.
That is a good amount of Ram.
You will get maximum.
You can go to 3.75TB of Ram.
So it's a huge number.
And you can see on the right hand side the monthly, it is going to cost the $15,000 for us.
Let's just continue with the N1 standard 1 or 1 virtual CPU and 3.75 gigs of Ram more than sufficient
for us.
Okay.
Any other thing?
Like a boot disk.
So by default, they have selected this ten gigs of boot disk with a Debian operating system.
If you want to change it, you can have a look at persistent disk.
Let's just make it 20 GB and there are a lot of public images being supported, Debian based, fedora
based, a lot of centos container optimized OS windows machine Ubuntu machine.
We are going to continue with the Debian one and let's say Debian nine.
Select it.
Okay.
Which service account you want to use it Compute engine default service account or service account,
which we have created for this one.
Let's continue with the compute engine default service account.
Later, when we create a same virtual machine via TerraForm script, we are going to use this TerraForm
GCP service account.
Okay.
You can have a look at based on our configuration, it is going to cost $32.
And that's perfectly fine because we are anyhow going to get.
Credit for $300.
Access scope.
So you want to allow access or default access?
Allow full access or set access for each API.
Let's continue with the default access.
You want to allow http traffic https traffic.
Let's continue with the http traffic.
And that is a good amount of information related to networking.
So which network you want to use it?
Any network tag you want to attach.
So currently, by default, this default network has been attached.
You can definitely change it from here.
So there are five networks are available.
You can have a look at the network which we have created earlier.
Now we are going to use it for provisioning our virtual machine.
For this one, the default network is good enough and inside the default network we are already having
a sub network in a Singapore zone.
Let's say instead of default one, I'll use the custom VPC cc.
You can have a look.
There is no subnet in a Singapore region.
We have created subnet in a US region, so it is not allowing us to create a virtual machine.
Let's continue with the default one for all auto mode.
Definitely it will allow because it has automatically created one subnet for each region.
Let's continue with the default one.
This information.
You want to attach some disk?
Not for now.
Security management.
So any startup script you want to add, there is some availability policy like a you want to make your
machine preemptible you can make it on and off.
All these options we are going to configure from TerraForm script also on host maintenance.
So migrate VM instance.
So when Google is doing some maintenance in their Google Cloud platform infrastructure, you want to
migrate your VM instance and that is the recommended by Google or you just want to terminate your VM
instance.
You don't need it.
Whenever your cloud maintenance is done again, it will bring back your virtual machine.
So there are two options.
So depending on the criticality of your business, you can select the individual option automatic restart.
So.
If something goes wrong for some non user initiated reason, like some maintenance is going on, some
hardware failure in Google Cloud platform, some software failure.
You want to do automatic restart and that is recommended.
You don't want to do automatic restart.
Okay, so these are the sufficient options.
Apart from that, there are good amount of possible combinations are available, but let us continue
with all default one and slowly, slowly will add more and more stuff via TerraForm script.
So let me create a virtual machine instance.
Now creation of virtual machine is somewhat very much instantaneous.
Let me refresh it.
Still, it's creating.
Not instantaneous, but within a matter of 30s around we can.
Get this resource provisioning.
Okay, so our machine is ready.
You can go inside, observe all parameters, and with this service there is a good amount of parameters
are available.
Machine type, which we have selected.
All right.
So we have created a virtual machine via cloud console.
Now, if you are not going to use this machine, you can make it stop.
Also later on, again, you can start it.
So for me, I'm not going to record next video now, maybe after some six hours or next day, I'm going
to record for the rest of the session.
So I'm just going to stop it for now.
That's good enough.
And again, I can easily start it.
So that is how one can manage virtual machine resources.
So.
Creation of virtual machine from cloud console is done.
Now, similarly, we are going to do from the TerraForm script.
So in the next few videos we are going to work with this TerraForm script for virtual machine creation
inside the Google Cloud platform.
I'll catch you in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Compute Engine - Terraform - I ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in the last video, we have already created one virtual machine, but that is through a cloud console.
Now we are going to create a similar virtual machine but via TerraForm script.
So first ever thing is we are going to.
Our Visual Studio code and let me create a new project.
Let's say we'll give the name GKE.
Google Compute Engine.
And the bare minimum stuff which we required is a provider.tf main.tf and a case dot Json.
Let me copy it.
And put it in a GC folder.
It has copied again this network stuff also, so I don't need it.
All right, Let me close all the.
Okay, so now we have a main.tf.
Now let me remove everything from the main.tf.
Okay.
Provider TF and a keystore Json will remain as it is.
First thing is, let's just go to browser and you can have a look at this is the virtual machine we
created.
Now let me go to the TerraForm GCP documentation and let's see what are the resource type which we are
going to use it.
So here we have a.
Compute engine and we have a compute.
So in a compute engine, we have a number of resource type being supported.
One is Google Compute instance, which we are going to use to create a virtual machine.
So first thing is we are going to use all those bare minimum parameter which required to create this
virtual machine.
And afterwards we'll just make it or I would say we'll keep adding a new parameter because as there
is a lots of parameters are associated with virtual machine.
Okay, so let's get started.
Google Compute instance.
So you can have a look at in case of a required parameter.
Let me just search for required network interface, join information, name, machine type and about
disk are the bare minimum things are required as far as the scratch disk attached disk are required
when you attach only it is required.
Scope is also, otherwise it will take it as a granted.
Default value.
Okay, so let's get started with the very first one.
Resource.
Google Compute.
Instance, what is the name we'll provide?
Let's say VM from TF.
That's a good one.
Let's provide the name.
Same name will provide VM from TF.
Okay Joan information inside which Joan you want to create this virtual machine instance.
So let's just make it Singapore because in Singapore we have already created one subnet, so subnet
has to be available, otherwise you just cannot create a resource.
So let's just make it a VM inside the Singapore Zone.
So that will be Asia Southeast one, let's say in Asian.
One more will be your machine type.
Okay.
So what are the possible values for machine type?
For that?
Let's just go to documentation.
And you can have a look at.
We can go to.
Machine type documentation.
How will reach there?
And that is the one note here that if you want to update this value, especially this machine type,
let's say you want to go from two virtual CPU to let's say four virtual CPU.
In that case, you must stop this virtual machine.
So that's why we need to make this particular flag to allow stopping for update So you stop your virtual
machine, update it and again restart it or I would say start it.
Okay, so what are the different machine type being supported?
So let's go to official documentation of GCP machine type.
I will write GCP.
Okay.
Machine family.
There has to be a big list which is being supported.
And let's go to General purpose one.
We have a E2 category and two category and 2D and N-1m.
Yeah, so this is what we are looking for.
So we have all categories of machines are available.
So first select whether you need a compute optimized machine memory optimized machine or a general purpose
machine.
Let's say I'm interested in a very simple one N1 or I would say a first generation virtual machine.
And we are going to continue with, let's say.
Two virtual and a 7.5 gigs of Ram.
So in that case, you need to use this as a machine type.
You need a lesser resources.
So one virtual CPU and then 3.75 gigs of Ram.
So let's continue with this one.
And afterwards, in case of Updation, we'll use this one.
So let me go to my machine type.
Okay, so there are five parameters.
We have already set the three one.
Okay, one more arguments in case in future if you want to update it.
So that will be allow stopping for update.
Let's make it true.
But for time being, I'm just going to make it comment.
Okay.
Now important one network with which network interface this is being connected.
So let's see what is the type of this network interface.
Now, if you want to see the structure for this network underscore interface, just simply search for
network interface.
Yeah, this is.
And here you need to provide a network information.
Sub network information.
Okay.
So that's I think, sufficient thing.
So let me go to.
Okay.
Before that, what is, what are the different networks are available which we have created earlier.
So let me search for.
VPC network and under which network we are going to create this virtual machine.
So we have one custom VPC, which we can use it because we have a Singapore region where we have already
created subnet.
So this is the our network.
And this is sub hyphen sg will create our.
Subnet information.
So let's just quickly define what is the network?
And we have a sub network.
So sub network will be sub.
Okay.
So network interface.
Then there is one more required field will be boot disk.
So here you need to specify with which operating system you want to put your machine.
So here you need to initialize the parameter structure.
You will get it in a documentation like, let's say, image with which image you want to put your machine.
And there is one more like a size.
So size will be, let's say we'll just make it 20 gigs of hard disk and image.
So whether it's a Debian operating system or Ubuntu Linux windows with which you want to boot it up.
So for that inside the gcloud compute command you can have a look at images list.
It will list down all the publicly available images inside the Google Cloud platform.
Now, if somehow you have not installed this Google Cloud SDK, this command is not going to work from
your local machine.
So in that case, you can visit to Google Cloud.
Console.
And from here, just simply activate a cloud shell.
And from here, also same command you can apply.
Let's see.
Yeah, we got the result.
So that is not in a little cleaner format, but that's perfectly fine.
Okay, so we have a CentOS Debian cause see Debian is also there.
So let me select the Debian one or let's select the ubuntu.
Any one of them.
Let's go with the Debian one.
Okay.
So I think these are the sufficient parameter to go ahead and create our first virtual machine.
GCP gke.
Let me make terraform init.
So downloading the plugin.
Next one will plan it and apply immediately.
Okay, then plan.
So one resource it is going to add with following configuration, if there is any required field missing
will get error.
Don't worry.
Let's go ahead.
Yes.
Yeah, we got error.
So what?
It says that.
Resolving image name.
Error checking if image Debian nine stretch.
Google API error require this particular permission.
So what I'm going to do, I'm just ending this video now and you can take it as an exercise.
Why we get this error and how we are going to fix it.
So in the next video we'll fix this error also.
But before that I would highly suggest you try to fix yourself.
Okay, I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Compute Engine - Terraform - II ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in the last video we tried to apply with following configuration while creation of Virtual machine
from the TerraForm script and we get this error.
So first thing is let's just search for inside which role this permission exists and this particular
role we are going to assign to our service account.
So let me go to my cloud console.
Let me collapse this part we don't need.
And first ever thing is, let me go to him.
And all the rules.
Search for this particular permission.
Compute images dot get.
And there is a good amount of roll being.
Supported where this particular permission exists so we can go ahead with the compute admin related
role.
So all permission will be part of it.
So compute admin we can assign compute admin.
To our TerraForm GCP.
So account.
Yeah, the last one.
Let me edit it and add one more rule.
So that will be a compute admin full access to your compute engine resource.
Okay.
Policy gets updated.
Let's apply once again.
Yes.
And I think it started creating no error so far.
That's why let's go to Cloud console and let's see.
After refreshing this compute engine screen.
Yeah.
Another virtual machine got created.
That is the VM from TF inside the same zone.
South is one A is the internal IP has been assigned.
No external IP.
And next thing is, let's go inside and let's observe all the parameters which we have set.
So first thing is machine type N1 standard one.
Join information.
Definitely join information.
You just cannot edit it.
Network interface.
We have used this particular network, Custom VPC.
And this is the subnetwork.
This is the boot disk.
We have used it Debian nine having a 20 gigs of size persistent disk and these are the options which
is by default.
We haven't set anything but we'll try to edit it.
I think our machine is ready.
Now.
In the next video, what we will try to do, we will try to edit some of the options, like let's try
to change the machine type from N1 standard one to let's say N1 standard to our requirement increase
our workload also got increase.
So we'll try to edit it.
Now when you try to click on edit, you will get to know about it.
There is a more parameter.
You can change it, but not just directly editing instead of that.
You stop it and try to edit it.
See there is a good amount of parameter.
You can change it, but if you stop it and edit it, there is a more parameter.
You can change it.
All right.
So in the next video, we'll keep updating parameters and we'll keep adding new parameters on our same
virtual machine.
I'll catch you in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Update Compute Engine parameter - Tearraform ---

Hello and welcome everyone.
So let's continue our discussion on.
Creating this virtual machine via TerraForm script.
So first thing is, let's do one thing.
We are going to update our machine type from N1 standard one to which machine will go.
Let's go with the N1 standard two only.
Okay, that's good enough.
And for that.
I'm just going to make this much change.
Let me apply directly.
And let's see if any issue will get.
Yes, we got some issue.
So what it says that changing machine type minimum CPU platform for these are the parameters.
Please set allow.
Stopping for update is equal to true if this particular option has not been set.
You just cannot update.
These are the parameters.
So to update this parameter, your machine has to be stopped.
So let's make this particular option true.
I purposely didn't uncomment it.
Let me guess.
So now it's modifying our machine type.
If you go to.
Compute engine you can have a look at.
Let me refresh it first.
It should stop.
Yeah.
So machine is being stopped after stopping it will update it and again, it will start it.
Still going on.
And you can have a look at now machine type is N1 standard two, not N1 standard one.
We haven't added any kind of labels with our virtual machine.
So let's do one thing.
Let's add some label.
Labels you can provide in a form of map or key value string.
Let's say.
Environment for which you are creating this virtual machine.
Let's say TF learning.
Let me remove this underscore.
Sometimes it creates a problem.
So let me apply it.
But before that, let's just check whether our earlier operation has been finished or not.
Yeah.
Done.
If you go inside now, our machine type is N1 standard two.
Let me edit this label.
Yes.
Modifying.
In place of label.
If you want to see, you need to refresh the whole page.
And you can have a look at now one label got added environment TF learning.
Okay.
What more things?
We can change it.
So we have a boot disk and currently this boot disk size is 20 GB, let's say from 20 GB.
I just want to make it 40 GB and when deleting instance you want to delete this disk.
But let's say instead of this option I just don't want to delete it.
So for that there is one option is available like a boot underscore disk.
Yeah.
So there is an option like an auto delete.
So whether your disk will be auto deleted when instance will be deleted.
So default value is true.
Let's just make it false.
And you can have a look at currently it's a delete disk.
So when instance got deleted, this disk also will be deleted.
Let me go here and let's say from 20 GB, I just want to make it 40 GB, let's say 35 GB and there is
one more option like not here auto delete.
So it's a true.
So let's make it false.
And let's apply it again.
Yes.
So you can have a look at after changing this option, it is completely destroying machine.
Still destroying.
Let's go here and let's observe all changes.
Let me refresh.
Yeah, we don't have a VM from TF.
So in such a scenario when we try to update this boot disk, it has completely destroyed the full virtual
machine and it will update with a new parameter and create a new virtual machine for us.
See.
It back again.
Let's go inside and let's observe all the changes we have applied.
So now it's a 35 GB good one.
Then instead of delete disk, now it's a keep disk because.
We have made this auto delete option as a false.
Okay.
Now what are the other things?
We can change it.
Okay.
Availability policy.
That is a preemptive ability.
So you want to make your virtual machine preemptible.
That means.
If the resource are available, Google will allocate to you and within a maximum 24 hours, Google will
take your machine back.
But at the same time you will get nearly 70 to 80 percentage of discount in your virtual machine.
So let's say if you do not need a high availability of your machine, even if Google takes it back within
a prior notice of 32nd, that's perfectly fine for you.
So in that case, you should use the preemptive ability.
Then we have a on host maintenance and automatic restart.
So let's just try to change this option with availability policy.
So where this option exists pre empty?
Well yeah.
So this options are available as a part of scheduling.
So let's add a scheduling in case of preemptible specify if instance is preemptible.
If this field is set to true, then automatic restart must set to false.
Default is false.
So currently this particular virtual machine is not a preemptible and let's just try to make it on or
let's make this particular option.
True.
And let's see what errors we'll get.
So another block
scheduling.
And that will be preemptible.
Let's make it true.
Okay.
Let me apply it.
Yes.
So it is destroying our earlier virtual machine and creating a completely new one.
But with this preemptible virtual machine, we never sure that we will have a same machine every time.
So after we will get this preemptible virtual machine, let's say if Google allocate to us, next thing
what we are going to do, we are again going to back in a non preemptible mode for our learning purpose.
Still not created.
Sometimes the resource has not been allocated and you can have a look.
We got some error.
So destroyed invalid value for the field.
Scheduling Preemptible.
True scheduling must have a preemptible to be false when automatic restart is true.
So another option.
Automatic restart is true.
So let's just make it false and let's apply.
So now it's again started creating machine with following option.
Let's observe all the changes from our cloud console.
Yes, it started creating and it's in a ready state.
Now let's observe this parameter.
So now preempt ability is on an automatic restart.
We made it off.
So we have explored the two options preemptive ability and automatic restart.
You can try for other one like a on host maintenance.
But meanwhile, what I'm going to do, I'm just going to.
Remove this particular option.
Scheduling.
I don't want to make it my machine preemptible.
Otherwise google may take it back before even recording this video.
So let's apply it.
No change.
We haven't made any kind of change.
So what you need to do, let's make preemptible of.
And let's apply.
Yes.
Okay.
It will keep creating in background, so don't worry about it.
Now you can always experiment with the other option like a on host maintenance so it can be migrate
or it can be terminate.
So on host maintenance migration is the default option.
Okay.
Apart from that, there are a lot of other things we can experiment.
So one is the service account.
Okay.
And there is one more like a attached disc.
So in upcoming videos we will see that.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Service Account - Terraform ---

Hello and welcome everyone.
So there is a few more options, like a service account.
Let's just try to explore.
So so far in a TerraForm script, we haven't added any blocks related to service account.
So if you see service account, there is any information about the service account being attached with
our virtual machine?
No, we are not able to see anything from here.
So in this particular case, the default compute engine service account will be used.
Now, let me go here and you can have a look at we have one block being supported, a service account
where you can provide the email ID which you want to attach.
And definitely this particular flag must be true.
Allow stopping for update because service account.
To update.
It has to be stopped.
That's why and there is one more thing like a scope.
So scopes, you can have a look at a full list of scope from here.
Let me go here and to access a complete all cloud API, you can use this cloud platform.
Apart from that, there are a lot of other scopes being supported.
Let's use this cloud platform for our case and the email ID which we are going to use.
That is not a compute engine default service account.
If you want to, let's say, check what is the service account being attached with our virtual machine,
let's just ssh into it.
And we can fire gcloud command line utility gcloud auth list.
So all authenticated account will be listed and among them which star you will get.
Idea that what is the current active account?
So what it says that connection via identity aware proxy fail.
Let me retry it once again.
Now this thing happens mainly because of this firewall rule.
So in that particular case, we have to create firewall rule, which allows this 22 number port traffic.
Let's try once again.
If it doesn't work, let's just quickly add a firewall rule, although that is not a discussion for
this particular video, but it's all about the moment you get some error, you need to debug into it.
You need to solve at this level only this way only learning will happen.
Okay.
Something goes wrong.
Fail to connect to end.
What will do?
Let me go to my.
VPC network.
And currently the network being attached, which is custom VPC.
So inside the custom Vbs.tv.
Let's add firewall rule.
Let's say allow.
Ssh.
Increased traffic, allow all instances in a network from anywhere
and on some specified port.
Let's make it 22 because this SSH protocol will work on a TCP 22.
And let's say once again.
Yes, you can have a look at.
After adding the firewall rule, we are able to enter into it because of this firewall rule and we haven't
set up any firewall rule to allow this SSH traffic.
That's why we are not able to enter into it.
Now if I just do gcloud auth list.
Okay.
So there is no credential currently and there is no.
Service account being attached with that.
So what I'm going to do, let me close this one and we are going to attach an hour this service account.
Okay.
Inside our service account block.
So there is a touring email and a scope service account email and there will be one more like a scope.
So scope you can provide in a form of list of screen.
Let's give what we have decided full access to all API cloud hyphen platform.
Okay, that's good enough.
We can apply it.
And afterwards we'll again check.
What is the service account being attached with our virtual machine?
Okay.
It's modifying, not destroying this time so we can go to virtual machine.
For service account to update.
There is no hard requirement to destroy it.
You can stop it.
Update the service account and let's observe.
So now do we have information of service account?
First of all, let's just see.
Yeah, we got some error.
Why this issue?
Okay.
What it says that error waiting for updating service account.
The user doesn't have access to the service account.
Ask project owner to grant this particular access.
Yeah.
So service account user role.
Now this particular role to this service account.
So let's attach it.
Moment you get error, try to solve it.
There is some issue with the UI.
Let me close this cloud shell and refresh the whole page.
Add one more rule.
So that is the service account user role.
Okay.
This one service account user run operation as a service account.
So this role has to be granted to our.
Service account.
Then only one can act as a owner for this virtual machine.
Okay, Policy gets updated.
Let's apply once again.
It's modifying.
Hopefully now it will work.
Still modifying.
Yeah.
So apply complete.
And one change got to be reflected.
How will verify?
So do we have any provision to see virtual machine from here or is it still creating?
No, it's in a stop state.
So it's not starting again or do we need to manually start it?
So that is what we don't need to do.
What it says that apply is completed.
With following scope to our service account and we have provided.
You know, for all assignment also.
Let me go inside.
Definitely.
I just cannot get into it.
But do I get a service account information here?
Then in that case, we can be sure.
Yeah, we got the service account information and you can have a look at the cloud API.
Access is also full, but I'm not sure there is.
Something goes wrong.
The machine is not being started, so let's just start it manually.
Okay.
So no need to ssh into it.
We can observe the changes from here.
The service account and cloud API access scope allow full access to all cloud API and that's what we
got from here.
Cloud Platform Alias.
We could have provided this particular option.
Also, I think Uri is also possible to give.
Okay, so that is about the service account, how to attach service account with your virtual machine.
Now still there are a lot of options, so you can always experiment yourself like a platform reservation.
You try to update something in a networking site?
Try to attach some disk, maybe disk will see in one of the video.
Okay.
So that's all about this video and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Attach Disk - Terraform ---

All right, everyone.
So, so far, we have made a lot of changes with our virtual machine.
There is one more like a attached disk and this thing, Let's see how to do it.
And for that, first we are going to use another resource type, which is a Google compute disk and
there is a attached disk.
So let's first create a new disk and this disk should appear here.
So in case of this now by default, with both virtual machines, there is a one disk is available.
We are going to create one more disk first here, and afterwards we'll attach with our virtual machine
VM from TF.
So how to create a Google compute disk?
Google Compute.
Largest search.
Let me search for disk.
Yeah.
Google compute disk.
So first we'll create this compute disk, and afterwards we'll try to attach with our.
Compute engine.
So to create a compute disk, what are the bare minimum parameters are required?
That is the name.
Description labels.
We can ignore it.
Size in a form of GBS, you need to specify.
Okay.
An image.
You want to preload this particular disk with some image type.
If you don't, you can just leave it this option and it will create a blank disk for you.
Okay type URL of a disk type resource.
So that will be a SSD type HDD type kind of disk.
In his own information snapshot.
There is a good amount of.
So what we will do, let's try to create one disk with a bare minimum parameter.
Let's say in a same project with another resource type.
We are going to create it.
Oops.
There is some issue.
Let me go to terminal.
Okay.
So the source type will be Google compute disk.
Let's provide the name like, let's say disc one.
That's a good one.
Name.
Disc one.
Okay.
What are the things?
Like a type.
So type and size.
Size.
Let's say we'll make it 15 GB.
Yeah.
One more is a join information inside of which zone you want to create it.
So let's continue with the Asia Southeast one.
Okay.
And that type.
Do I get any information about the type from the documentation?
We don't have much actually.
So there is some default value they have given like a PD SSD.
Option URL of the disk type resource describing which this type to use to create a disk.
Provide this when creating disk.
Okay.
What we'll do.
Let's continue with the.
SSD or we can continue with the HDD also.
SSD is the good enough?
Hyphen SSD.
Okay.
So we are independently creating one more resources from the same project, but we are not attaching
with our existing virtual machine.
So that is the additional disk we are going to.
Attach.
Still creating.
Create it.
Let's see where we can change.
Where we can observe.
Yeah.
So this one got created.
SSD persistent disk 15 GB.
This is the zone where being created and you can see this particular option in use by nowhere.
So this is the independent network disk currently not being attached with any virtual machine.
So we want to attach it.
And for that, another resource type, we are going to use it.
Google Compute attach disk.
So these are the.
Parameters which we require instance and a disk definitely into which.
Instance you want to.
I teach and definitely which particular disc you want to attach it.
So both the information is a must.
Apart from that remaining are optional one.
So let's just keep it as it is.
And there is a one more warning has been given.
Like when you are using this particular resource, you must set lifecycle rule or I would say lifecycle
ignore changes attached disk on a compute.
Instance, resource.
So we have already created this compute instance.
So what we will do, let's first add this one.
Google compute attach disk and there is a two argument we are going to set disk and instance.
So resource.
Google.
Underscore attach disk.
Okay, Let's say we'll give the name like a disk.
So that is just for the attachment disk information.
So inside the same project we have created disk so we can give reference something like this.
Google compute disk one.
Let's say.id and instance information.
So that will be Google compute instance VM from TF dot.
Let's say ID.
All right.
So I think good enough.
But along with that, there is one caution has been given.
So we need to provide this information here that ignore this changes that is nothing but a lifecycle
stuff.
Inside the lifecycle ignore changes for what you want to ignore changes.
So that will be for attach disk.
How we are going to specify this attached disk.
Yeah.
Ignore changes.
Attach this.
Let me copy it.
All right, so now we are going to attach it.
Yes.
So it's creating this particular resource.
Google compute attached disk and apply is completed.
Let's observe the changes.
So currently this disk one is not in use by any virtual machine.
After we refresh, it should be in use by this particular virtual machine.
You can see if you go to VM instances.
VM from TF.
In a disc part you can have a look at.
There is one additional disc being attached.
Disc one Size 15 GB.
There is no image because.
This is not a like a boot disk, extra blank disk.
We have added for extra data storage SSD type.
By default, it's a Google manage encryption key in a read write mode and keep this even if you delete
the instance.
All right, everyone.
So that is all about the how to attach a disk with your virtual machine.

--- Destroy GCE resources ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So now we have done enough experimentation with our compute engine.
You can definitely add more arguments and work upon it, create more complexity inside your.
Virtual machine via TerraForm script as a learning purpose.
But now, once your learning has been finished, I would highly suggest you to destroy all these resources.
Now, this particular resource VM from CSS we created manually from this cloud console, so we are just
going to select it and simply delete from here.
This one VM from TF, we are going to destroy it via TerraForm script.
So I'm inside the GCC.
Let me destroy.
So you can have a look at it is going to destroy this attached disk also.
And afterwards, a compute engine destroy.
Still it's going on so we can refresh and check from here.
And first it will stop.
And I think afterwards it will be.
Yeah.
Destroyed.
Let me refresh once again.
So just make sure everything happens as per.
Your expectation.
Okay.
Done.
The source code successfully deleted.
All right, everyone.
That's all about this video, and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Run Provision using Cloud Console ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So now we are going to learn about the Google Cloud run.
So it's a completely.
Serverless product.
And whenever you want to deploy your workload as a containerized application, you can use the Google
Cloud run.
So Google Cloud Run is one of the latest offerings by Google after they launch this Google Cloud function
and Google app engine.
So in this section, we are going to learn about how to provision this Google Cloud run, deploy a containerized
workload and how to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
So first in this video, let's just deploy via cloud console.
So currently I am inside my TerraForm GCP project.
Let me search for Cloud Run.
Or you can go from navigation menu.
Also we have a serverless category cloud run.
So currently there is no service being deployed.
Let's deploy our very first services inside the cloud run.
So first you can have a look at its enabling cloud run API in background.
First ever thing is we need to select some image URL.
Now, Google has already provided there are lots of images.
Inside the Google Cloud platform.
We are going to continue with the Hello world.
So we can use this particular image or let me show you with a full repository, which Google has already
published image.
So don't worry the URL for this one I'll share with you.
So Google has another product to host all those Docker images, which is a container registry.
Now currently they are shifting from container registry to artifact registry where you can host not
just the Docker but any other kind of repository like a maven repository, python based stuff, NPM
packages, everything.
So you can have a look at inside this Gcr.io Google container registry.io.
A lot of Google has provided a sample and one of them is a hello app application you can have a look
at there is a good amount of different version being uploaded and it's a very small in size.
So first ever thing is we are going to.
Deploy with a very first version.
Let's copy one.
So to copy the image you can use, so pull command and it will show you a complete name.
So you can use this one or you can use this one.
Let me copy it, close it and container image URL.
We are going to supply it from here.
Okay, now continuously deploy a new revision from source repository so you can provide, in this particular
case, your source repository URL.
That's what we don't want to do as of now and service app.
So it will be, let's say run app from CC.
Okay.
That's good fun for us because we are deploying this service from the cloud console region.
Let's continue with the US Central one.
Apart from that, there are a lot of other region being supported, so good number of region being supported.
Let's continue with the US Central one.
You can have a look at alongside the individual region.
They have given some indication also whether it has a low CO2 emission or not.
Okay, so let's continue with the US Central one Iowa.
Now CPU allocation.
So this is little new stuff they are bringing that CPU is allocated during the request processing.
So as and when the request will come, a new container instance will process your request and create
it.
Or you can use this one where CPU is always allocated to your.
Instance, let's continue with on demand auto scaling.
So minimum number of instances and a maximum number of instances.
So for app, let's say ten.
So if the traffic goes high, maximum ten instances of your application will be working.
Anything in advanced setting.
So our application is going to run on 8080 port.
Any container command capacity, how much CPU you are going to allocate some request timeout maximum,
it can go to 3600.
So that that will be one hour.
Let's just continue with the 300.
Apart from that, there are some variables and secret.
If you define some variable, you can use it inside the code.
Connection, some security.
So internally, this cloud run is going to use this compute engine default service account.
Okay.
Let me continue with this one next.
Now, ingress.
So you want to allow all traffic or you want to allow just internal traffic or you want to allow internal
traffic from some cloud load balancing only.
Let's allow all the traffic and you want unauthenticated invocation or require some kind of authentication.
So in that case you need to authorize some user.
To invoke this cloud run application from browser as authenticated user.
Let's continue with the allow unauthenticated invocation and let's create our first services with a
Hello World version 1.0 so you can have a look at our first revision.
It has started deploying, so deployment may take a little time.
So I'm just fast forwarding my video till this deployment will be completed.
All right, everyone.
So you can have a look at after some 2 to 3 minutes.
Our cloud run app has been successfully got deployed and currently we have one revision is available.
Who is serving 100% of traffic?
Okay.
First thing is let's just access our application, whether it's working fine or not.
So let me copy this URL.
Let me go to another tab.
And bang on.
It's working fine.
Hello, world.
Version 1.0.0 and host localhost.
Okay, so we have successfully deployed it.
You can always monitor different metrics from here.
These are the revision logs.
Trigger details.
Okay, so there are permission.
Currently it is being allowed to all users and because of this unauthenticated invocation they've added
this particular policy.
Cloud run invoker role to all users.
Same thing we are going to achieve via TerraForm script also.
So don't worry about it.
Okay.
Next thing, quickly deploy another revision.
Okay.
So now instead of oops, let me go back and let me show you how you are going to deploy another revision.
So currently one revision is being deployed.
Let me add it and deploy a new revision.
So in our container registry, we have a version 2.0 is also available.
Now, if you see the URL for 2.0, there is only thing changes after this colon.
We just need to make 1.0 to 2.0.
So the same URL, but now version 2.0.
Let just keep remaining all thing as it is and serve this revision immediately.
But we don't want to do it.
Let's just deploy it.
And later we'll decide about how much traffic we are going to allocate to our first version and how
much to the second version.
All right.
So you can have a look at the second version is successfully got deployed, but still it's not serving
any traffic.
Zero percentage of traffic.
If you want to manage some traffic, you can select individual one individual, I would say revision
and click on manage traffic.
Let's say 50 percentage of traffic will come from this revision and definitely remaining 50% will be
served from this revision.
Let me save it.
So now you will be able to see both versions will serve 5050 percentage of traffic.
How we can verify same URL.
Let me refresh multiple times.
1.02.02.02.0.
2.0.
1.0.
So almost 50% of time things will be served from this revision.
Version 1.0.
And the remaining 50% of time it will be served from another 1.0.
Now, let's say if you are completely satisfied with version two, you can just simply go manage traffic
and let me make it a second version as a 100 percentage of traffic.
Let me save it.
And afterwards all the traffic will be served from version 2.0.
So if you refresh multiple times every single time, it will be 2.0.0.
All right, everyone.
So we have successfully deployed our Hello World application to Google Cloud Run.
You can always explore different options available how we have deployed this application.
There is a nice Yaml file where all the configuration detail has been given and there are some permission.
So that is all about how to.
Create this cloud run services via cloud console.
Now in the next video, we are going to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
Okay, so I'll catch you in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Run + Terraform - I ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this video now, we are going to write a TerraForm script to deploy our cloud run infrastructure.
So let me go to first Cloud console.
And you can see one service is already running inside the cloud run.
Now we are going to create a new service, but via TerraForm script.
So that will be run app from TF That is from the TerraForm script.
So first thing is let me open TerraForm GCP documentation.
So this is the official documentation for Google Cloud provider.
Let me search for Simply Run.
And you can have a look at.
We have a.
Three resources are available.
Google Cloud Run Services.
Let me go here.
And this particular resource will help us to create a cloud run environment.
Let us see what are the attributes we require.
So currently the two argument, which is a mandatory one, which is one is name and other one is a location.
Let me go to my VS code and let's create another folder.
Let's say it will be a cloud run.
Or let me just make it run.
That's simple.
From the network.
I'm just going to copy Main.
DTF providers and keys dot Json.
Let me open main.tf and I'm just going to remove every single thing.
Okay.
Let me open command prompt.
So resources.
First ever resource will be google underscore.
Okay.
I.
Exciting Google Cloud run service.
Okay, let's provide the name.
Run app from TF.
Let us provide a name and a location as a mandatory field.
And another one is location.
So location.
Earlier we deployed in a.
Us Central1.
Now let's deploy in somewhere nearest to my location.
Let's say Asia.
Southeast one.
So here you are giving the information about the regional level availability.
You don't have a control to go at a journal level that in which particular zone you are going to deploy
your application.
Next thing is a, we need to specify.
Even if you don't specify all those detail options, at least you need to specify which image you want
to deploy it.
And let's just search for what is the block being supported for it.
Let me go to documentation.
So we have one block, which is a traffic block where it helps us to split up the traffic.
We have a template block where you can provide the metadata.
There is some spec.
Let's go inside the spec and spec is the required stuff.
So definitely we have to create the template block must.
Let me go to SpaC.
Yeah, SpaC.
So in case of SpaC, we need to provide a container information.
Now, container again is kind of block only, I guess.
So let me go to containers.
Working directory.
Org environment from image.
Yeah.
So that's what I was looking for that with which image we are going to deploy our services.
Okay.
So what we are going to do.
This image is important and this is where we are going to provide our image URL or the URL from which
it can pull the images.
So let me go to my.
VS code and it always starts with template inside the template.
We have a spec inside the spec we have containers and container.
Oops.
Container contains image.
Okay.
So what is the image URL?
Let me copy again.
We are going to deploy version one, but I can easily copy.
Oops, this one.
Let me make it version 1.0.
All right.
So this is the required thing.
We have deployed remaining all parameter.
It will take it as a by default.
Now, let me search for is there any other required stuff which we haven't added.
So there is a good amount of required stuff.
Local object reference.
Secret key.
Your port information.
We need to provide the port information.
So do we have a port?
Information is available at this level?
No.
Let me search for where?
This port.
Comes in a hierarchy.
So port block support.
Yeah.
Inside this pack, I think we can provide the port information.
Yeah.
SpaC.
Okay, let me go to VS code and inside the spec.
Now inside template no container.
Yeah.
Ports.
Port.
So you can provide the port name and the port number on which you want to run your app.
That's perfectly fine.
We don't want to go into those details for now.
So let's just continue with the default port where it will deploy its containerized application.
Okay.
So without much further ado, what we will do.
Let's go to GCP.
Run.
And let me do terraform init.
And let's see if any other parameter is mandatory or not.
TerraForm Plan.
Let me apply it.
One resource that is going to create it?
Yes.
Oops, we got error.
Okay, so first ever thing is from this service account.
This particular service has not been granted yet.
Run dot, service, dot, create.
Let me copy it.
And let's assign equivalent permission.
So for that let me go to Im.
He now a case of roles?
Let us search for.
Run dot services dot create.
So that is a part of a lot of roles.
One of them is a cloud run admin.
So what we'll do to our service account, let's just assign this role Cloud run admin.
Let me add one more role.
Yeah, we have a cloud run admin.
Let me save it and let's again apply it.
Yes.
All right.
So I think it started creating.
Let's just wait for.
Sometime.
Yeah, it's creating so we can observe from here.
Services.
Is there any option to refresh?
Yes.
Yeah, you can have a look at run app from TerraForm.
Start it.
And our region is south East one and our application successfully got deployed.
Let's just verify whether there is any error or not.
Yeah, no error so we can test it.
Zero requests per second being served and this being deployed by you can have a look at by this service
account, not by this one.
So earlier when we deployed via cloud console, that is through this particular account.
Now we have deployed via TerraForm script.
That is through this service account.
Let me go inside and let's just test it.
So this is the URL and you can have a look at this URL is not currently in a dark mode, so let's just
test whether it works or not.
All right.
So you can have a look at we got this error.
Your client doesn't have permission to get this URL.
Why such a thing happened?
So for that, what we are going to do, we have to go to permission and I am just leaving it to you
how you are going to solve this problem via TerraForm script.
So in the next video, we'll try to see the solution behind that.
For the time being.
You can always try to change this particular permission yourself via TerraForm script or via cloud console.
I would suggest you don't go with cloud console.
Try to change anything from the TerraForm script only.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Run + Terraform - II  (allow Public access) ---

All right, everyone.
So in the last video, we were not able to access our cloud run application, which we have deployed
via TerraForm script, because it says that your client doesn't have a permission to get this URL.
So for that, there is one more resource type which we are going to use a Google Cloud run service.
Okay.
Now same thing how we can achieve via cloud console.
So let me just quickly show you.
But we are not going to go with that way from the permission menu.
Let me go to Add and here you can provide any user name.
Let's say we want to make it public so I can go with all user and provide from cloud, run a cloud run
invoker role.
Now all user can invoke this cloud run application and that's what the same thing we are going to now
achieve from TerraForm script.
So what I would suggest you let's take a screenshot of this part and after we add or assign a policy
binding, we'll again compare with this one.
So I'm just going to take screenshot of it.
Let's just keep it in background.
Okay.
So this is the another resource type which we are going to use it and to use this resource type what
we required.
So one is the service, another one is a location and member member.
You can give individual user ID also you can provide some service account.
Also you can provide some group also domain also all authenticated users.
So those who have a valid Google account, they can only access it and there is all user.
So even if the user is not authenticated by any Google account, they can still access our application.
Okay, so let's first create another resource and this resource will be.
Google Cloud run.
Service in policy.
And what we are trying to provide here, let's say some public access we are trying to provide here.
There is the first two things we need to provide to which service you are going to provide this access.
So service we have already created Google Cloud run service earlier.
Let's provide ID, So we are just simply giving the reference to our service.
Another one is a location that's a mandatory.
So location I can grab from the same service via dot location.
Okay.
So that is the two mandatory thing.
Let's just see.
Is there any other stuff we require?
Let me always search for require.
Okay, So roll information.
And policy data.
So I can provide the role information directly from here or we can provide a policy data.
This particular block you can provide via Google Iam policy.
So instead of giving this way, I would leave it to you how to use this role.
I'm going to go with this way and this way.
We are going to use another.
Resource type.
Also, that is nothing but a Google Iam policy.
And this policy we are going to attach with our policy data.
So there is a one more argument like a policy data
and one more resource we need to create.
So Google
am.
Is it correct?
Let me just again check.
So in suggestion, they are not providing this information, but let us just simply verify from documentation.
So yeah, it's a Google Iam policy.
Let me search from here.
Google.
Yeah, we have a Google policy.
Yeah.
So that's the one mistake I did.
That is nothing but a data, not a resources.
So let me just do small modification, because now in this particular case, we are not creating a new
resources, but we are just reading this thing from data.
So that will be Iam policy.
Correct.
And why we are getting this information because this let's just make it pop pop one or public access.
Okay.
Here you need to provide a binding and binding between which two role so binding between a roles and
a member.
So one is role and how you are going to provide the role.
So that will be role slash run dot invoker.
So that is what a role we are going to assign it and the members so member you can use it like a if
you want to provide a public access to all user, we are going to use this one all users.
Okay?
And the same policy data, what we are getting from here, we are going to assign it here.
Yeah, it has to be starting with data again.
I am policy pub one.
Dot policy data.
All right.
So this way we have made a binding Google cloud run service.
Iam policy with Google.
Iam policy.
So from this particular part we are grabbing this data make binding between this role.
And user.
Now, instead of this all user definitely you can provide.
Some other email id also to which only you want to grant access.
For.
Now let's just make it public and let's apply it.
Yes.
Okay, we got issue.
Let's.
What it says that there is some API issue, so cloud run admin API is required.
So let me just go from here so you can have a look at while deploying service at a very first shot.
We don't need anything.
So let's first enable it.
Yeah, we have to select the project TerraForm GCP.
Let me remove the project part, otherwise it will keep going to that particular project.
Yeah.
Cloud run admin.
API is enable.
So why we get some issue.
Let's just dissect it again.
Service is disabled.
Let me just make a ID to name.
Okay.
And let's try once again.
Yeah, you can have a look.
It's done.
So it didn't work here?
It has to be a name because maybe name and ID is different, so it is unable to identify our services.
So now let's just observe to from this cloud console.
So first ever thing is let's check whether our service is running or not after providing permission.
Yeah, you can have a look at it.
Just started working and from permission you can have a look at there are total five entries.
Now I'm just going to refresh it.
No change.
Let me refresh the whole.
Page.
All right.
You can have a look at it.
There is one more entry got added all user and assign a cloud run invoker role and same thing we achieved
via this to.
Google cloud run service.
Iam policy.
And Google Iam policy binding.
All right.
So now there are few more stuff like let's say from application one, let's say from version one of
Hello World App two, we want to go to version 2.0 how we are going to deploy it and how we are going
to split the traffic via TerraForm script.
In the next video we will see that.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Run + Terraform - III (Deploy new revision) ---

All right, everyone, welcome back.
So now we are going to deploy another version of our images.
So what I'm going to do, same thing.
I'm just going to copy it.
Let me comment the earlier one.
So as a reference, you will have a version 1.0.
So now we are going to deploy a version 2.0.
Okay, let me apply it.
So definitely we should have a two revision inside our cloud run services.
And it's modifying.
Let's go here and observe all the revisions.
Let me refresh.
Yes, another revision, but you can have a look at there is one thing we may change.
We have migrated all our traffic to our new version.
Let's say we want to split the traffic between both of them as we have done earlier via cloud console.
Let's see how to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
So let me go here.
And there is one more block we are going to attach with traffic.
Traffic as a block.
Okay, so here we can provide a revision name and to each individual revision, let's say how much traffic
you want to migrate.
So that will be percentage 50.
Same way.
We are going to migrate 50% of traffic to another revision.
So what are two different revisions?
So we can grab the name of this revision from here.
So now I'm just leaving it to you.
Moment we deploy a version 2.0 of our Hello World application.
All traffic has been migrated to our newer revision, but that is what immediately.
We definitely don't want it.
So if you want to achieve and you just want to deploy it, you don't want to serve any traffic how you
are going to achieve via this TerraForm script.
So you can take it as an exercise or a homework.
So there are two traffic block we have added for both revision 5050 percentage of traffic and let's
apply it.
Okay, let me go to my cloud console and let's refresh it.
So instead of 100 zero now, it's a 5050 percentage of traffic.
Same thing we can.
Access from here.
So 50% of traffic, 50 percentage of time, version one will be served.
Another 50 percentage of time.
Version two will be served.
All right.
So this is what about the cloud run service?
You can go to documentation and there are many more parameters, mostly related to CPU information.
How much ram you want to allocate for your container?
Everything you can configure from here, timeout the service account which you want to attach.
So currently we haven't added any service accounts.
So by default it's.
Google Compute.
Default service account.
So you can always experiment and you can take it as an exercise that try to accommodate more and more
number of stuff from this documentation into your TerraForm script.
I'm just ending this video and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Destroy Cloud Run Services ---

All right, everyone.
So now if your job is done from this Google Cloud run service.
The way we did for Google Compute Engine.
Same way we are going to delete this resource once your job is completed.
So let me select this runoff from cloud console, which we have created.
Let me delete it from here and run it from TerraForm script.
We are going to delete via TerraForm Destroy.
So I'm inside this run project.
Let me do TerraForm Destroy.
Okay.
Yes.
Yeah, two reserves got destroyed.
Let's just verify it.
Or we can refresh.
No option to refresh.
All right, then.
That's all about this video, and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Deploy Cloud Function - Console ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So another product in our serverless compute category, which we are going to learn in this particular
section, is a cloud function.
So earlier we have seen about the cloud run where we are going to deploy a complete application.
But this cloud function is not meant for building a complete application.
Instead of that, a small task, you can deploy it as a function.
Generally, this can be triggered via some pub sub topic or some Http trigger or some kind of upload
from the Google cloud storage.
So same strategy we are going to apply.
First, let's see how to deploy your cloud function from the cloud console and we'll see.
Or how to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
So let me go to my cloud console and let's go to cloud function from our serverless category.
So cloud function is getting ready.
That means some process it is doing in background.
So it's done.
And you can have a look at one liner for this cloud function.
It's a lightweight, event based asynchronous compute solution.
That means it's a very lightweight.
You can create a small single purpose function in a response to some kind of cloud event and no management
of server is required or any runtime management.
So let's create our first cloud function.
Let's say we'll give the name like a fun from CC function from cloud console region where you want to
deploy.
Let's continue with the US Central one.
Apart from that, there are good number of region being supported for this product.
Okay, I'm just going to continue with the US central one.
How you want your function to be triggered.
So it can be, let's say Http based trigger.
So something like you hit some URL and this function will be executed or through some cloud pub sub.
So if some message appear inside the topic, this will be triggered or let's say some file you upload
in a Google cloud storage.
This will be triggered.
We are going to continue with the Http based event trigger.
So you can have a look at.
Till now, we haven't deployed anything and already the URL got created us central one TerraForm GCP.
So this is the complete our.
The region name, then a project ID, Then there is some common part, like a cloud function.
Net.
And at the end our function name which we are going to deploy.
Okay.
Next one is authentication.
Let's allow all unauthenticated invocation so publicly anyone can access our.
Function.
Okay, Let me save it.
There are few more parameters like runtime.
So how much memory for each function execution you want to allocate?
Maximum.
It can go up to eight gigs.
128 is also sufficient for us.
Let's continue with the 256 timeout.
So in earlier cloud run we have seen the maximum timeout was 3600, but let's say we'll give 3600 here.
And we got error.
So what it says that timeout must be in a range of 1 to 5 42nd nine minutes.
Let's just make it 300.
I don't know why they kept something like 1 to 9 minutes.
Okay.
Another one is runtime service account, which service account you want to use to deploy your function.
So that is on app engine default service account, compute engine default service account, and one
which we have created.
Let's continue with the app engine default service account.
Okay, Auto scaling minimum number of instance, let's say we'll make it zero maximum.
It can go up to ten instance of our function build.
Connection allow all traffic.
Security.
So you want to reference some secret here?
Okay.
No need much.
Let's go.
Next.
Okay.
First ever thing is to build and deploy this function.
Cloud build API is required.
And it is not currently enabled, so let's first enable it.
Let me enable and this will be wiped out afterwards.
The code you need to deploy it.
So first one will be you need to select the runtime.
Now there are a lot of runtime being supported, like a Dotnet go and a different version of Go Java
NodeJS and we have a PHP python Ruby also.
Okay.
What we will do, let's continue with the NodeJS 14 and with all the default code.
But one thing I'm just going to do it like this.
Index dot json file and a package dot json file.
I'm just going to copy and keep it in my local machine so you can see in case of index.js there is a
very simple hello world function being created, so let's make it.
Hello world.
CC That is from the cloud console.
So hello world and small print.
It is going to return or display as output.
So hello world from.
Cloud console.
All right.
And this is our entry point of our function.
So we have just one function.
Let me change the function name now so it will be Hello World CC.
And corresponding to individual different runtime.
We have a package.json, so let's continue with the same package.json available.
Now you can see source code, so there are multiple ways you can upload it.
So if your code is available in a zip format, you can upload it.
You can directly get the source code from the Google Cloud storage after shipping it.
And we have a cloud source repository.
So let's say inside the source repository you have already code available for cloud function.
You can deploy it here.
Now in this particular case, we are going to continue with the inline editor, but later when we write
a TerraForm script, we have to go with other better approach.
We'll go with this git from cloud storage.
Okay.
So first of all, let me just copy this code.
Mhm.
How we are going to copy it.
Yeah, it got copied.
Let me open notepad.
And there are few changes we are going to do instead of CC tf when we deploy via TerraForm script and
Hello World from TerraForm so we can easily differentiate it.
Let me keep some folder in a documents like.
Function.
And the file name for this one will be index dot js.
Okay.
Let me create another file.
And now it will be a package.json.
Let me save it.
Now, depending on different runtime, you will be able to see a different package dependency.
So this will be a package dot Json.
Okay.
Successfully got saved.
Let's continue ahead in our function deployment.
So.
Adding all parameter has been set.
Let me deploy it.
Why?
I have taken this code.
Because the same code we are going to deploy via TerraForm script.
So you can have a look at creating function one from SEC.
So this deployment will take little time.
So till this deployment will be finished, I'm just fast forwarding my video and I'll catch you after
this deployment will be completed and our function will be in a ready state to use it.
All right.
So you can have a look at this.
After some 3 to 4 minutes almost it took to deploy our function.
Let me go inside and let's just quickly test it.
So our authentication is completely unauthenticated so we can grab the URL from this.
Testing so we can test this function.
Nothing we are going to supply as an input.
Yeah.
So you can have a look at we got output.
Hello world from cloud console, but we have to test it from this http event also.
And this is our URL to execute our function.
So let me copy this url going to another tab and bang on.
You can have a look at Hello World from Cloud Console is working fine now if you go to permission.
You can have a look at that is the one thing already got added all users cloud functions invoker now
same thing we will achieve via TerraForm script.
Also just like what we did in case of cloud run also.
And because of this policy binding, everyone can access it.
Now instead of this particular user.
Let's say you want to assign to some specific user only cloud function invoker role, you can always
assign it.
All right, everyone, our function is ready.
In the next video, we'll get started with achieving same thing via TerraForm script.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Function - Terraform (Create Bucket) - I ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in the last video, we have successfully deployed our cloud function, but that is via cloud console.
Now we are going to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
And first of all, we need to upload our source code to the Google Cloud storage.
So there are two ways one can do it, like we can manually upload it and another one is we can write
a TerraForm script for that also.
So let me go to my documents and inside the function you can have a look at this, the code which we
are going to upload now, you just cannot upload directly.
You have to zip it.
So let's just again verify all our code is fine or not index dot Json and I think fine.
Hello world TF Hello World from TerraForm.
Okay, so first of all, let me zip this one.
So it will be an index chip.
Does it contain both the files?
Yeah.
Index.js and a package.json.
Now, first thing is, let me go to Visual Studio code where I'm just going to keep this index.js file.
Okay, let's create another folder.
Let's say it will be a function.
And from network.
I'm just going to copy all required files.
All right, then.
Now this index.js file also we require.
So let me just drag and drop from index.js to our function folder.
All right then.
Okay.
So everything will remain as it is in the main one.
Let's just remove all the code.
And now there are two step process we are going to follow.
First one will be create a bucket.
Next one will be.
Upload index dot gif file.
And afterwards there will be deploy function.
Oops, it will be a deploy and there will be last one will be policy binding.
That is, we are going to allow for all user or let's say some specific user, we can easily do it.
Okay, So let's go step by step.
First one will be create bucket.
We already know how to create the bucket.
So it will be resource.
Google storage bucket.
What is the name?
So fun.
Underscore Bucket.
Let's provide the name with all default parameter.
So what is the name?
We will keep it.
Let's say fun bucket where we are going to keep all our code.
And that is from the TerraForm.
Okay, now before uploading, let's do one thing.
Let's create this bucket first so it will be inside the GCP folder.
We have a function folder and let's do terraform init first.
Then let me plan it.
Now, this is one of the beautiful thing that even if you keep adding new parameter, new resource,
the earlier resource will not be affected or it will not create earlier resource again and again apply.
Yes, one new resource will be added.
All right.
The bucket got created.
Let's just verify
cloud storage.
And we have a bucket one bucket.
TF underscore tf.
Now inside the same bucket we are going to upload our index dot js file.
So let me use another resource type.
So that will be a Google underscore storage.
Underscore bucket underscore object.
So this resource type will be used to upload an object inside the bucket.
Let's say what name we'll give.
Let's say SRC.
Source code.
Okay.
Nice one.
What is the name with which it is going to upload?
Let's say it will be a index dot zip.
You can give any name and bucket into which you are going to upload it.
So that will be a Google cloud storage dot fun bucket.
We have created earlier and let's provide a name.
Okay.
Now this is the name with which it will upload it to the Google Cloud storage bucket with exit file.
You want to upload it.
So for that we have to use the source.
Now I'm going little fast for this Google cloud storage because we have already learned about the Google
Cloud Storage index dot G.
Now here you can definitely provide some other name with which you want to keep your object inside the
Google Cloud storage.
Okay.
So I think it's a good enough.
Let's apply it.
Yes.
Well done.
Let's verify.
First, inside the fun bucket.
TF.
Yes, you can have a look at index dot.
Zip has been uploaded.
So two step we have completed another two step will see in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Function - Terraform (Deploy Function) - II ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Function - Terraform (allow public access) - III ---

All right, everyone.
So I hope that you have created a solution for this policy binding and assign some proper role to all
user or to some specific user which will make your function to work.
You won't get such a forbidden error.
Okay, so let's continue with this Google Cloud function function and what are the required arguments
will be?
Definitely with which cloud function you want to apply all these changes.
We have a region.
We have project.
Then we have a members and a role.
So I think everything we can provide it directly in a same resource instead of using another one like
a policy data which we have used in a Google Cloud run case.
After creating this Google Iam policy data source.
So in this particular case, the data source, we can use it to generate the policy and later on we
can assign it to our cloud function.
Otherwise you can provide this members in a role directly here.
Okay, let's provide all the parameter.
Let me create a new resource.
So to resource Google underscore cloud.
Function and that will be Im member.
Let me just cross check again.
Is it?
Im member or.
No, its a function underscore im only.
But then there is a im member.
Also.
I don't know why it is not available as a part of documentation.
Okay.
Let's continue with the.
I am member only.
Now let me create a some unique name.
Let's say allow access.
Okay.
First one will be.
Region.
So google cloud function fun from TF dot.
Region.
Cloud function.
Which cloud function, you are going to use it so google cloud function fun from TF.
Dot.
Let's say we'll give it a name.
Another one will be important one.
We are going to keep like a roll.
So which roll you are going to assign?
So that will be cloud functions.
Invoker role.
Roles less cloud functions, invoker.
Now, members, to which member you are going to assign it.
So it will be for all users.
All right.
Now, let's see some example here.
There is a good amount of example they have provided, like a policy binding.
See almost similar thing.
We try to achieve it.
Member role and that is through this particular resource and the project, we can provide it, but I
think that's not mandatory.
I mean from provider it will take into consideration, Okay, let's apply and let's see, is there an
issue?
Yes.
So it started creating a policy binding resource name will be allow access.
Okay, let's go here.
And before accessing this particular one, let me refresh our permissions from cloud function.
So do we have an entry for all user so publicly anyone can access it?
See Cloud functions.
Invoker.
Okay.
Now we can definitely try to access from our http URL and bang on.
It's working fine.
All right, everyone.
So this is about the cloud function and how to deploy this cloud function via TerraForm script.
If you go to cloud function documentation.
You can have a look at.
There are many other.
We haven't use it like a timeout.
We have an event trigger.
We use this trigger http as a true.
Labels via direct service account email environment variable.
So you can definitely try.
For this particular parameter and try to add more complexity in your cloud function.
All right, everyone, I'll catch you in the next one.

--- Destroy Cloud Functions ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So we created a to function in a Google cloud function.
Now if you don't require it, you can just simply delete it.
So you can select individual one and there is a delete option.
So what we are going to do, we are going to delete this CC function from here and another one from
the.
TerraForm script so we can simply use TerraForm Destroy.
Now, this particular service is not going to cost much to you.
Let me go to my function and let's just apply TerraForm Destroy unless and until you do not use it,
it is not going to charge anything from your even free credit.
And anyhow, in a free trial there is a good amount of free stuff for cloud function.
So don't worry.
Even if you leave it as it is, that's perfectly fine, but I would highly suggest you please delete
all resources if you are not going to use it.
All right for resource got destroyed.
Now you can have a look at let me refresh it then bang on.
And now you can go to even.
Cloud storage also.
And let's observe whether it has deleted this bucket also or not.
Yeah.
So you can see in a reverse manner everything has been wiped out clearly.
So that is about just the TerraForm destroy and how to remove all the resources which we have created
so it will not incur more cost from your free trial account or from your credit card pocket.
Okay, I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] BigQuery with (Console + Terraform) ---

OK, so in this section, we are going to learn about the data warehousing solution.
A big query and how to create a basic infrastructure for BigQuery via better script.
So let me go to my cloud console and currently, I mean, say TerraForm GCP project, let just simply
go to BigQuery.
And these are analytical database solution inside GCP.
So I'm currently under this project.
We are not going into detail about what McQuarrie is.
It can be another course.
But the common hierarchy through which this particular McQuarrie works are something like project.
Under the project, you can create a dataset and ops.
Under the dataset, you can create multiple people.
OK.
So we are going to see how to create this dataset and how to create this table.
So from this project, let me click upon this three dot and create a dataset.
Let's say dataset name.
Will you like this from CC and location where you want to keep all your data?
Let's continue with us.
S. one.
And let us keep remaining olding as it is, so it is going to create a data set now inside the data
dataset, it definitely you can create a table, so select individual dataset.
And you can have a look at we have option to create a table.
So empty table.
We want to create it, you can create a table from Google Cloud Storage.
Upload some data, all from Google Play on a big table.
Let me provide the table.
So these a table from CC, many times we are going to use this history that it just because we are creating
this thing from the cloud console.
Let's create an empty table with all default option.
All right, so they will got created, but no schema.
They will nothing.
OK, so no.
Same day how we can achieve terraform scope.
So for that, let me go to GCP
TerraForm.
Let's see what other resource type one can use it.
So we have a cloud table.
Where is that we go?
We can easily search from here, be great, yeah.
So there are a lot of resource types are there.
One of them is Google McVerry Dataset, and that is one more like a big query table.
Then there is an IBM related tablet to which user you want to relate, what level of access that a dataset
level ought to be.
So let me select this dataset, and with all the default option, we are going to create a Google Cloud
security dataset.
So we're definitely required parameter is only named as a highly.
So I'm currently inside my visits to the accord.
Let me select, let's say from this, then I'm going to select key studies on May Taf and provided.
It we create
ambiguity.
All right.
From the ATF, let me read more everything.
Now there are two resource type, we are going to use it, and I'm not going to continue in much more
depth.
You can always continue in more depth with a different parameter for resource creation, insider makeready.
But the basic one I want to highlight from here.
So that will be a source.
Well, this Makeready dataset, let's say, will give the name like a bit to underscore this.
But a name which we are going to provide.
Oops.
No suggestion.
Yeah.
So I think some of the name or it is not accepting name might be.
Yeah, we have a data set in this particular case, so that will be bias from.
So dataset we are creating from the Donovan script.
OK, now table creation with all minimum required argument only.
I'm going to use it, so that will be good will be very evil.
Let's see table underscored here because we are creating from Latif.
Definitely.
We need to provide the name and here what is the name argument?
No, we have yeah, we have a table.
I think we can use the table.
So people from.
B.F..
And let's see, in case of people, what are the other required stuff?
Definitely, we need to provide information about into which particular dataset you want to create optimal.
Yeah, so dataset I.D. and they will I.D. is required.
Let's do it.
So that would be the Interstate 80 Google Cloud Google BigQuery dataset dynamically as we already created.
Lord, we can use it.
Lord, we have a data set.
Yeah, we have a data set.
OK, so we all just bad minimum parameters.
I am going to create a resource infrastructure inside the GCP Cloud BigQuery.
Now there is a huge amount of other things that are available, so you can take it as an exercise,
either homework and add more arguments in your BigQuery infrastructure creation.
So let me go to.
Tell me a big, greedy battle foam in it.
OK.
Same issue.
Bad record and make error while installing light right things goes wrong for big gray.
Let me tell you once again.
Yeah.
Not sure what was it, but sometimes it happens.
That's perfectly fine.
TerraForm apply.
Yes.
All right, so we got it.
So it doesn't ever McQueary dataset create permission.
So let me copy this one and let's assign appropriate permission.
So from AM now this would be used to process for you.
How you can assign which role, what I would say to appropriate role McQueary data secretary.
And that is a part of a lot of different roles.
So related to some big query, we can relate.
Let's provide a big query.
I mean, that's good enough for us.
So that will accommodate mostly people creation, but also.
Like me and it this one.
You know, one more rule, let's go to McQueary.
And McQueary, I mean, let me say.
Now, let's just quickly go to with the studio code and let's play again.
If the policy has been successfully propagated, we should get, yeah, our dataset and a table.
So two reserves got created.
Let's go to cloud console and we are going to verify.
So we have ideas from CC same way this is from DFA we should get.
Let me explain it.
Yeah, we got this, this from deep and inside, did we ever one table?
But this is completely empty table.
There is no schema.
So definitely you can enhance it extended.
After putting some schema for each individual table.
Apply some of the properties of people and to make us a living.
All right, everyone that is about the cloud, McAtee, and I'll catch you in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud PubSub with Cloud  Console ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- [Hands-on] Cloud PubSub with Cloud Terraform ---

All right, everyone.
So in this video now, we are going to see how to create this topic and subscription via TerraForm script.
So first, let me open the TerraForm GCP documentation, Google Cloud provider, and let's see, what
are the resource type we need to use.
Okay, you can have a look at we have a pub sub pub sub lite topic light subscription schema subscription.
So one of them is a subscription and one of them is a topic.
So first we will use the topic and corresponding to topic.
We have a Iam and corresponding to subscription.
Also we have Im.
So definitely we can set a proper role or role assignment we can do to some particular user via this.
Iam.
Okay, so let me go directly to the argument.
So name is the only mandatory thing to create a topic apart from that to assign some labels some message
storage policy schema setting.
Okay, so what we are going to do, we are just going to.
Go ahead with all the default stuff.
We can even set the schema also so you can try to set some schema from here.
Let's say let me quickly create one schema and the same schema.
You can use it.
Let's say schema one.
You can put it in a protocol buffer file or you can keep it in a Avro file anywhere.
Doesn't matter.
Let's say first field some name.
Another field.
Let's say integer.
We'll just keep it H.
Okay.
Validate schema test message.
How we are going to write this message in a Json format.
So one field will be name.
Let's say my name is Ankit and another field will be age.
So that cannot be is equal to it has to be colon, let's say 32.
Let me test the message or copy this one.
Yeah, message is valid.
We can go ahead to create a schema.
All right, so schema got created.
Now same schema.
You can use it while creation of topic.
So your schema you can have a look at now we should have one schema is available.
Now your message has to be in this format only.
So I'm not going to do this thing with the TerraForm script.
Instead of that, I'm just leaving it to you to use this schema setting option.
You can read about the documentation.
So schema setting contains two things.
One is schema and one is encoding.
There are some example also being given that how you are going to.
Define a schema.
Okay, we are going to work with this topic creation first.
So let me go to my Visual Studio code and let me quickly copy our required file.
Let's say it will be a pops up.
So the resource.
Let me write pubsub directly.
Yeah.
One give suggestion Google.
Pops up.
So we are going to use this Google pops up topic.
Let's say topic underscore TF.
What is the name?
We want to keep it same one topic underscore tf.
All right.
Let me go to terminal.
Let's say GCP CD pops up terraform init.
So that is like a very useful process for us in IT plan and afterwards apply it.
So let me plan for it.
We have just provided a name and let's apply it.
Yes.
Oops, we got error, so not authorized to use it.
So mostly I think it's related to.
Added creating topic Google APIs.
So user not authorized to perform this action.
Why so not specific any error they have provided to us.
So it's getting difficult error creating topic via this.
Service account.
So let's just go to our part.
Let me open Im and let's see to our TerraForm GCP service account.
We can provide some proper role or not.
So huge amount of roll we have already assigned.
Let me add it one more.
Let's see.
Any pubsub related stuff.
Oops.
Not.
Let me just search from here.
Cloud pub sub.
I think pops up is a separate one.
Yeah, we have a pub sub.
So pub sub admin.
Pub sub editor.
Publisher.
Subscriber viewer.
Let's go ahead with the pub sub admin.
Let me save it.
And.
Let me try once again.
Yeah.
So it just started creating a topic.
Next one will be our subscription.
So let me create a resource for time being.
Pops up.
Subscription and the name will be sub underscore tf.
Okay, let me go to browser.
And from topic, let's just check whether our new topic got created or not.
Yeah.
So topic underscore TF got created but here we got some issue failed to fetch all topics.
That's fine.
I think it is able to fetch all things but let me refresh the whole page.
All right, so topic underscore tf.
Now let's create a new subscription with all those minimum parameters.
So if you go to.
Google pops up subscription here also you need to provide.
What are the minimum stuff remaining?
All parameters.
You can always experiment yourself.
Yeah, the name to subscription.
And another one is topic for which a subscription.
Want to subscribe it for message consumption labels.
And we have a push configuration.
So by default it's a pull.
Message, retention, duration.
So all those arguments you can always try out yourself.
That's a very simple one and you should get used to with this one now.
Okay, so let's go ahead with all our minimum parameters.
So first one will be a name.
Let's say sub underscore tf.
And another one will be a topic.
So topic we have already created in the same file Google pub sub topic topic underscore tf dot vid.
Also we have name also.
Let's continue with the name one.
All right, let me apply once again.
Yes.
So it started creating a subscription.
So let's go to our cloud console.
And let me refresh from here.
Yeah.
So subscription got created and this one has been subscribed to topic underscore tf.
Now let me quickly send some message to our newly created topic.
Let's say hello from TerraForm created topic.
Okay, let me publish it.
You can view from here also.
See they've given the.
Everything here.
Only because I was Skip showing you from here.
So the same UI is available here only.
So there are some changes and I didn't aware about it, but that's perfectly fine.
We have published one message now let's pull it.
Yes, we got the same message.
Hello from TerraForm created topic.
Now, we haven't consumed this message because we haven't acknowledged it.
Now suppose we want to acknowledge it.
Same UI.
Don't get confused.
We need to enable this particular flag.
We are going to do it from here.
Let me enable this acknowledge flag and within a matter of 10s, I need to acknowledge that I have received
the message and I have all processed this message so that this message will be deleted from our input
topic.
Okay, let me acknowledge it.
Now, if I do not acknowledge it in a ten second, you can see this part will be expired.
Yeah.
Deadline accident.
Now, you cannot give acknowledgement.
So let me pull again.
See, deadline time is 10s.
Let me acknowledge it then Let me close it.
Let's try to pull again.
You will be able to see.
Now there is no message.
See, because this message we have already consumed and we have provided acknowledgement.
Okay.
So that is the basic idea about how to create an infrastructure for cloud pub sub topic creation and
subscription creation.
Apart from that, there are a lot of other options out there.
So try to correlate this option with whatever options are available, like message retention, duration,
retain, acknowledge, message or not.
So equivalently there are options are available while creation of topic and a subscription.
Try to correlate both of them and try to add more and more complexity inside your infrastructure creation
and try to create a topic and a subscription based on your business requirement.
All right, everyone.
So that is about how to create an infrastructure for cloud pub sub inside the GCP environment.
I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud Spanner with Terraform ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this video, we are going to see our Google Cloud spanner and how to create an instance via TerraForm
script.
So Google Cloud Spanner is another SQL solution available inside the Google Cloud platform.
And it's a.
Horizontally scalable, highly distributed with a low latency database.
So let's see how we can create a Spanner instance and this as a in-house product.
So very quickly you can create a Spanner instance.
But just remember, this is one of the costliest products.
So once your job done, you just simply remove it.
So let me go to database category and we have a spanner.
So Spanner is a horizontally scalable database and it's an in-house product developed by Google.
First other thing is I need to enable API.
For mission critical application globally consistent and you can do right on a multiple different location
also.
All right.
Let me create a new instance.
Let's say spanner from CC.
Now make sure that whenever you create a spanner instance, whenever your job is done, simply delete
it.
It is going to cost a lot.
Spanner id.
Let's just keep it as it is.
You want a regional or multi-regional?
Let's go ahead with the regional configuration.
Let's say in Asia Southeast one.
Allocate some capacity.
So in terms of nodes, we just need a one node.
There are some capacity guidance they have given and you can have a look at what is going to cost you.
This is the compute cost, this is the storage cost.
So if you combine or I think storage cost definitely is very less, but if you just see compute costs
$1, it is going to cost you per hour and there will be three read write replica in a three different
zones of Asia Southeast one.
So in any of the zone of Asia, Southeast one, it is going to do a write.
So that means it's a horizontally scalable database, and that is not the case with a cloud SQL.
Okay.
Let me quickly create it and you can have a look at just.
See instance got created because of this in-house product developed by Google.
Google already knows how to create this one, how to start this one, how to destroy it.
So nothing more than that we are going to do with this instance.
But anyhow, Google is going to charge for me for next one hour for $1.
So now what we are going to do.
Let me quickly go to First TerraForm documentation for GCP.
And let's see the same instance how we can create with this spanner.
So we have a spanner database and a spanner instance I'm going to show you with the instance.
So, for instance, let's see what are the arguments are required?
One is a name.
Another one is a config.
So configs are nothing but in which region you are going to create your spanner instance.
And there is one more like a display name number of node processing unit everything you can set it yourself.
Okay.
So which region?
Let's go to this particular documentation.
And here all list of region has been given.
We can go to regional and multi regional configuration.
Cities.
Are the region being supported?
So let's say we'll go this time with X out one.
Okay.
And for that we have to use first regional as a name, first region, regional as a keyword, and afterwards
a proper region name.
Okay.
So let me go to my Visual Studio code.
We close the remaining stuff.
Let's say key dot Json
main.tf and provider.tf.
Let me copy it.
And.
Let me create a sequel.
So all those SQL creation we are going to do inside this one.
Okay.
Main.tf.
Let me remove stuff.
Or better will keep all equal in other different project only.
So let me rename it.
So let me just make it spanner.
Okay, so resource Google Spanner instance, you can create database.
Also, let's say spanner underscore TF because we are creating from the TerraForm script.
Okay.
What are the things we require?
So first thing is name our usual one spanner underscore tf.
Another one will be a config.
So config is a required fill that in which region you want to create it.
So let's say reach null hyphen, let's say Asia South one.
Okay.
Oops, there is some typo.
Asia South one.
Okay, what are the things?
So there is one more like a display name.
So display name is required one.
I don't know why, but it's required.
So spanner from TF.
Okay.
That is the display name.
And any other things like, let's say number of nodes.
So let's just make it one.
One node is sufficient for us.
Any labels we want to attach.
So you can give label every time in a form of key value pair.
Let's say environment for which we are creating this spanner instance.
So that will be learning.
TF.
Let me make it small case.
Okay, sufficient.
Let me go back.
Spanner TerraForm init.
And then let's plan.
Couldn't start the client TerraForm Alice.
I don't think it is anyhow related to us, so let me close it.
Oops, we got some issue.
So what?
It says that TerraForm Spanner name doesn't match with this regular expression.
Let me see.
What is the name we have given earlier?
So earlier name of our spanner instance will be spanner underscore from underscore key.
That's perfectly fine, I guess.
Let me remove this underscore for timing.
Yeah.
Then let me apply.
Yes.
Okay.
Again, same error.
I am permission.
Let's just quickly add it.
So let me open in another tab.
So some spanner related admin role we will quickly assign to our service account.
Let me edit it.
Let's add another rule.
So spanner.
Okay.
Cloud spanner admin.
Let's save it.
And let's apply again.
Yes.
Okay.
It started creating instance.
And let's go to Cloud Console and check how we are going to check.
So we have to refresh the page.
Okay.
Our instance gets created.
Spanner from TF.
Let me go inside and you can have a look at quickly.
We are able to create it now inside the instance, you can create a database so you can use this one
database.
So database.
Contains instance name into which you are going to create it.
The name you need to provide for your database and some DDL statement.
So what we will do, let's just quickly create with all the default name.
So it will be a Google Spanner database name and instance.
Resource.
Is there an issue
not providing any kind of suggestion?
Don't know why.
We have a Google spanner, not instance.
It will be our database.
Okay.
That might be because.
We got that problem.
So let me quickly copy this spanner database from here so it won't create much typo for us.
So let me select and quickly create.
So let me just quickly copy this spanner data type from here.
And here we are just going to provide instance name and the name.
So that will be database.
What is the name you are going to provide to your, let's say, DB one?
Okay.
Name same one.
DB one And definitely it's another one
instance.
So instance will be a Google Spanner instance.
Dot.
Spanner underscore tf dot name.
Okay.
I think that's sufficient.
Let me quickly apply it.
So it will create one blank database for us.
Okay.
Started creating database.
Still creating.
Let's just go and check inside our Spanner instance.
All right, So Db1 got created.
Now, next thing, let me go to all instances.
First instance we have created manually.
So this is one of the very costly resource.
So just select it.
And if you are not going to use it, simply delete it.
So deletion option they have removed from here.
So let me go inside and let me delete this instance.
Spanner ID you need to provide it.
Okay.
And another instance is Spanner from TF.
So let me just go inside and let's just simply delete from here only this instance.
So its id will be span tf.
So let's just make sure that both instances are completely deleted because it is going to wipe out our
credit so fast.
Yeah.
Done.
So we don't have any instance of spanner now running.
All right, everyone.
So that is how you can create a spanner infrastructure inside the Google Cloud platform.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud SQL - Console ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this video we are going to see.
How to create an instance for cloud SQL.
Using cloud console and with TerraForm also.
So Cloud, SQL, Cloud, SQL are nothing.
But when you want to lift and shift your existing SQL solution, let's say it is in a.
MySQL database or it's in a PostgreSQL or a MySQL and you want to lift and ship to the Google Cloud
platform, one can use this cloud SQL.
So let's see how we can create our Cloud SQL instance via cloud console.
And later on we'll see how to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
All right, so I'm inside my cloud console.
Let me just go from database category.
We have a SQL.
So this is like a single node database.
Here it is, not a horizontally distributed database, so more Ram, you will add more capacity.
You can add.
But then still there is some upper limit.
You just cannot go for infinite virtual CPU and infinite Ram.
Okay, so there are some limitations, but still, if you want to lift and shift your existing SQL solution
from open source database like a.
MySQL or PostgreSQL or commercial database like MySQL, you can easily do it.
So let me show you how to create first instance so you can have a look at the very first thing you need
to select which database engine you are going to.
Deploy it.
So MySQL and its version, PostgreSQL and SQL Server currently being supported.
Let's go with the MySQL.
Okay.
Instance ID.
So my SQL from CC.
That's a good one.
You want to generate a root user password.
So that will be auto generated.
So we can keep it somewhere.
Or I can give a very simple one for this particular demo root at one, two, three.
Or you want to keep no password.
That's not a good and recommended practice database version.
Let's continue with the 5.7 your regional or general availability.
So let's continue with the US Central one.
And you want to deploy it in a multiple zone?
Definitely.
In case of failed over, you can immediately select another region.
But in case of there is no failover still you just cannot use the other instance for our case.
We can always go ahead with a single zone instance.
Definitely they are telling not recommended for production.
Okay, some more customization like machine type.
Let's continue with the very simple machine one virtual CPU and 1.7 gigs of Ram more than sufficient.
Otherwise you can always select lightweight standard and high memory virtual machine storage.
So SSD and HDD recommended one will be SSD.
Let's continue with a very simple ten gigs and HDD is also good enough.
Enable automatic storage.
That means if you are running out of storage, it will automatically get increased public IP.
And let's go ahead with all default value like backup time.
When you want to take automatic backup or any schedule backup maintenance.
So you can always give the preference of your maintenance window when Google can maintain your infrastructure
and depending on which particular database version or particular database engine you are selected,
you can set different flags.
Okay, any label, let's continue creating our instance.
All right, everyone.
So instance creation will take a little time.
So I'm just fast forwarding my video till this instance will be completed.
All right, everyone.
So now you can have a look at our MySQL.
Instance, inside this cloud, SQL is ready.
This green tick indicates that it's running perfectly fine and it has been assigned one public IP address.
With this service account, it is operating.
If you want to connect easily, you can go ahead with your open cloud shell as this is the infrastructure
course.
I'm not going into detail about the development part of it, but I just want to show you that if you
want to quickly connect it via Google Cloud Shell, how you can do it, because same thing we are going
to do via TerraForm script.
Also because TerraForm script is just for the infrastructure creation, okay?
And you can have a look at Gcloud command line utility.
It is internally using with a user root authorize.
Okay.
What it says that this particular API.
SQL Admin is not enable.
So let's just click upon it and let's enable it.
Let's enable.
And afterwards we can try again to connect it.
So definitely one just cannot connect from anywhere.
But as you are connecting from your cloud shell inside the same account environment, this IP address
of cloud shell will be whitelisted from your cloud SQL.
Okay.
API got enabled.
Now, before that, I want to show you one thing.
Connection.
So you will be able to see.
Currently there is no authorized network but oops moment.
We connect it now it will whitelist our IP so allow.
Listing your IP address for incoming connection for temporary five minutes.
So it's still going on.
You need to provide the root user password.
You can have a look inside the user.
There is a root user being created.
Okay.
Provide a root user password.
The root at one, two, three.
Yes.
Bang on.
We are connected with our MySQL instance.
Let's say if I just type a very simple query like so databases.
So currently by default there is a for database already exists.
All right.
So that is how one can create a Google Cloud SQL instance from the console only.
Next thing is how we are going to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
So in the next video we'll see about that.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud SQL with Terraform ---

All right, everyone.
So let's continue our discussion on Cloud SQL with TerraForm.
So in the last video, we have created a SQL instance having a MySQL database engine from the cloud
console.
Now we are going to create a same instance or I would say similar instance from TerraForm Script.
So first let me open TerraForm GCP documentation.
And let's see, what is the resource type, which we are going to use it so I can search from here.
Cloud SQL and we have a multiple SQL are available.
We are going to create this Google SQL database instance.
And let's go ahead with all bare minimum parameters.
So let me go to argument reference.
Okay.
The region information.
Setting database version.
So we have selected earlier also MySQL 6.0 I guess.
Yeah, MySQL five six version.
Same way you can provide different database version.
Name.
Name is also optional.
You can't believe about it.
It will automatically generate this name.
Let me just check for what are the required parameters first of all.
Yeah.
So information like this block will.
Ask for the what is the machine type?
You are going to use it.
So earlier we used a very simple one one virtual CPU with a 3.75 or I think 1.7 gigs of Ram.
If you go here a here, you will have a better idea.
So what are the tiers being supported?
Or through this API, all tears will come.
Listing of tier.
Yeah.
On the right hand side there is an API explorer, so just provide I think, the project.
ID.
So our project ID will be this one.
And let me execute.
You need to authorize.
Allow.
Bang on, we got output.
So you can have a look at these.
Are the regions being supported?
We can.
Oops.
Difficult actually to copy.
Oh, that's a very, very big one, Chili.
So let me copy the full one.
Let's go to some Json editor.
Yeah.
This is my favorite one.
Always.
Let me format the full code.
Yeah.
Bang on.
You copied here.
So there are 17 items.
So one is db F1 Micro.
We have a db g1 small you can see.
All the tier information DB and one standard.
And for each tier they have provided in which are the regions it is being supported.
Okay, so this way for each individual parameter you can grab the information.
So tier information we are going to provide it.
What are the things?
Database flag but not necessarily actually database flag.
We need to.
Okay.
Authorized network Source Instance Name Backup.
Run ID.
Okay.
Do one thing.
Let's just go to our Visual Studio code and start working upon it.
Okay, let me create a new folder.
Let's say SQL.
Let me copy all required file.
All right, let me remove all this stuff.
So resource Google SQL database instance.
And name will provide like a MySQL from DF.
Now we are going to provide a name information.
We don't want to rely what is the auto generated name and let's provide the same one.
Okay.
Earlier we provided the root user password also.
But here we are not going to provide the root user password.
So there is some cache here.
Let me just search for root and there is some notes about it.
So this second generation instance will include a default root with no password and this user will be
deleted by TerraForm automatically on instance creation.
So once you create this cloud SQL instance, it will automatically delete this root user.
So just like a root user, what is available here in our earlier case?
Through which we have also logged in to this particular instance that will not be available.
So instead of that, another resource type, we need to use a Google SQL user one, let's say deletion
protection false.
If you make it true, you just cannot delete it.
Next one will be, let's say, region.
So region, we are going to continue with the, let's say, US Central One.
Okay.
So these are, I think, sufficient.
Not more than that.
Anything required.
Next thing setting.
Now, inside this setting, we have a tier information.
What tier we are going to use it.
Let's continue with the DB hyphen.
One which we have just now grabbed.
So that will be.
DB one small or we can go ahead with a db f one micro also.
Okay.
So I think sufficient setting.
Next thing is we need to create a user because you just cannot log in with the root user.
Root user anyhow simply doesn't exist.
So another resource type you need to create Google SQL user.
Let's say I'll give the resource name like my user and what are the minimum stuff you require?
So let's just dissect into it definitely here.
One thing we need to surely need to provide one is username, password and instance into which you want
to create this SQL user.
So let's provide one by one.
Is there any name?
Yeah, let's say I'll provide my own name as a SQL user.
Anything like password.
Yeah.
So definitely it's not a good and recommended practice to provide the open password directly hardcoded
here.
So for this you can use the secrets and hashicorp vault for getting those auto generated password,
for storing those secret stuff.
And in production, definitely those practice needs to be implemented for our case.
Let's continue with the plain free form text password directly inside our code only.
But definitely it's not a recommended.
Is there any other option?
Yeah.
Instance that is required.
So instance we have already created MySQL from TF and here I need to provide the name of my
instance.
So inside this instance it is going to create this particular user, Ankit and architect.
One, two, three.
Okay.
And now let's try to create our instance with remaining all default parameter.
And let's see, is there any other error we will get or not.
So kdgs GCP.
Now we are inside the SQL.
Let me do terraform init quickly.
Then let me plan it.
And you can have a look at a full configuration for our both this resource because two resource, it
is going to create it.
Name, password.
Password is sensitive value, so it will not be displayed here.
There are a lot of things like host ID and we have a project.
It will be known after resource will be created and for our main resource, which is the instance creation,
you can have a look at a lot of parameters.
We'll get to know after the resource will be created.
There are few things we have already supplied like tier information and there are a lot of default also.
Okay.
See MySQL 5.6 we don't provide it.
So default value it will take into consideration and deletion protection.
We have explicitly provided false name we have provided and the region information we have provided.
Okay, let's apply it.
If everything goes fine, it is going to take at least 8 to 10 minutes to create an instance.
Okay.
What It says that client is not authorized to make a call.
So definitely it's a Iam issue.
So let me quickly go to Iam.
And let me assign.
Cloud SQL related role.
We are going to simply provide the admin related role.
Let me add.
Let me search for a sequel.
Yeah.
Cloud SQL Admin.
Let me save it.
Now let's try to.
Apply again.
Yes.
All right.
So I think instant just started creating.
We can verify from our cloud console.
Let me refresh the page.
Yeah.
Instant started creating.
Now instance creation will take good amount of time.
So I'm just fast forwarding my video at least 8 to 10 minutes it is going to take.
So I'll be back after this instance will be ready.
All right, everyone.
So it almost took 8 to 10 minutes.
We can verify and our instance is ready.
So let me go to.
My Visual Studio code and you can have a look at apply complete to resource got created.
And.
Almost It took ten minutes, ten minutes and 28 second.
And the last one creating of my user.
That was a very simple one.
Okay, so now let's go inside MySQL from.
And let's try to connect it.
So open cloud.
Shell.
Okay.
And yeah, before that, I want to show you that inside the user you will be able to see we have just
unchecked user.
We don't have a root user because once this instance got created they just simply delete it.
So let me create or enter in with user.
Okay.
Oops, there is some typo.
Oops.
Sorry.
Let me clear.
So again, it will whitelisting our IP address.
We can go from the connection.
There is a one network will be added here.
Still working on a whitelisting part.
Yeah.
Provide your password.
All right.
So we got some issue.
Okay.
So you can have a look at why we are getting some issue.
I was also a little bit in hurry.
Our SQL instance was MySQL from TF, not CC.
Okay.
And that is the mistake we did.
That will be TF.
And now we will be able to see this white listing IP.
See we got this IP.
So this IP address, which it has whitelisted, that is the cloud SQL IP address.
Now, let me provide a password and bang on.
We are connected.
So same way we have all database, a default database are available and you can start working with that.
Now, we don't have a database.
You can see because of that root user.
Root user has one extra database, but now it's a normal user which we have created.
Okay, so that is how one can create a cloud SQL instance with TerraForm script.

--- Destroy Cloud SQL Resource ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So the last part is if you are not going to use this instance, please destroy it.
Otherwise it is going to cost you based on the tier you have selected.
So let me select this MySQL from CC.
Yeah, we have option to delete it.
And.
All right.
Statically deleting, next one will be MySQL from.
We are going to delete it.
So for that we are going to use the TerraForm Destroy.
Yes.
Now, why it is allowing us to destroy this one?
Because we have already provided this deletion protection.
False.
By default, it's a true.
That means deletion will not be allowed.
It is being protected.
All right.
So if I just try to refresh let me close this one and let's just confirm whether it started deleting
our TerraForm.
Yeah, I think done.
Both instances are successfully get deleted.
If I just see from our terraform output here, it's still going on, but that's perfectly fine.
It will be finished.
So that's all about this video, and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud BigTable  with Terraform - I ---

Hello and welcome, everyone.
So in this section we are going to learn about how to create the infrastructure for a NoSQL database
inside the Google Cloud platform.
So there are two database mainly exist.
One is a big table and another one is a data store or a Firestore.
But data store Firestore doesn't require any kind of infrastructure creation.
You can just simply start working upon it after selection of whether you want to use it in a data store
mode or a Firestore mode.
After that, it's all about the job of developer, not on.
Shoulder of infrastructure engineer.
So first they were NoSQL solution inside the Google Cloud platform where you actually need to create
a instance which is nothing but a big table NoSQL database.
So this is the white column, NoSQL database.
It has a high compatibility with the Apache open source base system.
So let's see how we can create a infrastructure for Big table.
And later on we'll see how to achieve the same thing via TerraForm script.
Okay.
Currently I am inside my project test.
Let me go to TerraForm GCP.
Let me search Cloud Bigtable.
That is a part of database.
Okay, so let's create our first instance.
If the API is not enabled, you need to enable it.
So let me create a bigtable instance.
Let's say we'll give the name from CC because we are creating from the cloud console.
Now this big table is also in-house product developed by Google, so it's very much fast.
But you can see we haven't selected any resources yet and still it's showing that it is going to cost
you $468 per month for just one node cost.
It's roughly $0.65 per hour per node, and we haven't added any kind of extra even storage.
So let's say I'll just keep it ten gigs.
So another $1.70.
Now you want to access the Or HDD Now based on SSD selection, it is going to cost you.
$1.70.
If I select HDD, it will cost less.
But let's go ahead with SSD.
Let me continue and configure your first cluster.
So from CC C1.
So that is the cluster ID, So inside the instance you can create a cluster.
Now location where you want to create it.
So let's create inside the Singapore, let's say Asia Southeast one Asian allocated node.
Let's go ahead with the one.
Let's see if I make it two.
It will just simply going to double it.
Now you can see with just one node in a Singapore, it is going to cost you $520.
If I select, let's say, US Central, mostly in case of us, the prices are a little lower.
And you can have a look at with the same configuration is going to cost you $470.
So I think for our case, let's continue with the $470 encryption.
We are going to continue with the default one Google manage encryption key, anything in advance option.
So if you want to add some cluster, you can use it.
But we are going to continue with the our default one cluster or I would say first cluster with and
let me create it.
So you can have a look at within a matter of less than 10s.
Your instance is up and it will start charging you for your instance and it is going to cost you nearly
$0.65.
Okay, our instance is ready.
Now, the same instance we are going to create from our TerraForm script.
So for that, let me open TerraForm GCP.
Search for big table.
Yeah.
So there is one which we are going to use.
One is the Google Bigtable instance where you can create a bigtable instance and that is the one more
like a big table table.
That means you can create a table inside your cluster which you create inside the instance.
Now if you see the instance, the name and a cluster of your instance, that's a mandatory stuff.
Apart from that, you can give project information, but that will be taken from the our provider.
Display name deletion protection will make it.
Of labels and instance type, whether you are going to use it for development or production purposes.
Default is always production.
Then comes like a cluster information.
So here you need to provide insight which zone you are going to create it your cluster ID.
Number of nodes.
So earlier we selected a minimum one node storage type.
We selected SSD that is the default 1 or 1.
Okay.
So I think that is a sufficient parameter to go ahead for creating a big table instance.
Let's go to our Visual Studio code and write the TerraForm script to create a Bigtable instance.
Okay.
So first thing is let me quickly copy all our required file keys, dot json main.tf and provider.tf.
Bigtable As a new project, let me open Main.tf.
And I'm just going to simply remove everything.
Okay.
The resource which we are going to use Google underscore Bigtable instance, let's say BT from TF.
Oops, I should have kept it here.
Let's remove this name.
Okay, now let's just skip all the mandatory stuff first.
First one will be name and name.
We are going to keep it this one.
Next one.
Let's just keep it deletion protection as a false so that even if we want to destroy it, we can do
it.
Okay.
Any labels we want to attach.
So just like earlier, many times we did it, let's say environment, we are going to use it for the
testing environment and important one that is a cluster information.
So inside the cluster there are a lot of things you can provide.
One is cluster ID, So let's say this is the BT from TF and that is the first cluster we are going to
create inside our instance.
Okay, one more like a number of nodes.
We'll keep it.
One default is also adding one.
Okay, storage type.
So let's continue with the SSD and that is also default one, we don't need to bother about it.
Okay.
So I think things are sufficient.
If we get some error, we'll see about that.
So let me just quickly go to big table.
Let's apply TerraForm in it.
If something goes wrong, we'll try to fix it here.
Let me plan it.
Oops.
There is some typo then.
So this is what it is going to create.
Now let me apply.
Yes.
Oops.
Okay.
Big table admin API.
Let me copy this one.
eBay API is already enabled.
What?
It says that permission denied cloud bigtable admin API has not been used.
Okay, we'll copy it.
Go to our browser and let's solve it.
All right, so cloud Bigtable admin API is not unable because while you create from this cloud console,
things are a little different compared to you create from some service account.
Okay, API is enabled.
Let's quickly create a bigtable instance.
Oops.
Now, I think the error got changed.
Now it's an issue.
So let's go to Bigtable instance.
Create.
We can provide the Bigtable admin role easily.
So what I'm going to do, I'm just ending this video now and this is like a very useful process for
you.
So before you start watching the next video, try to fix this particular problem yourself.
Anyhow, in the next video, we are going to solve the same one, so I'll catch you in the next video
with a solution for Iam issue.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud BigTable  with Terraform - II ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- [Hands-on] Cloud MemoryStore  with Terraform - I ---

Hello and welcome everyone.
So another NoSQL kind of database which we are going to learn in this video is Memory Store.
So it's an in-memory database, so latency will be very, very low and it has a support for both famous
or I would say very popular in memory database like a reddis and another one is a Memcache.
So we are going to create an instance for Redis before we create an instance.
Let me go to my cloud console and let me show you.
This is Memory store and Memory Store has a support for both Redis and Memcache, So let me go to memory
store.
And first, the other thing is we need to enable a memory store for Redis API.
Same way if you are going to use it for memcache, you need to enable the API for memcache.
All right, so our API got enabled and you can have a look at on the left hand side, we have two options
are available.
One is Redis and another one is Memcache.
Let me create an instance.
Let's say we'll give the name like a reddish from CC from the cloud console.
Okay.
Here.
Lower cost with a basic tier and higher cost, which is having a facility of failover replica.
So that is definitely recommended in case of production system.
But this basic one has a lower cost and it doesn't provide a high availability for our learning purpose.
We can always go ahead.
Okay.
Region So.
Let's continue with the central one, a capacity.
So maximum it can go up to 300 GB, but we don't need it.
So let's continue with the.
One that is more than sufficient.
And you can have a look at on the right hand side for just one GB of in-memory database.
Radice It is going to cost you $35.77.
We don't want to enable any authentication and in-transit encryption for now.
Any preferred window for maintenance, you can select any or depending on your blank time, you can
select individual day and particular time.
Okay.
Set Redis property.
So currently for Reddish, these are the four versions being supported.
I have already tested earlier with 4.0, so I'm just going to continue with the 4.0.
You can always go ahead with the latest one.
Okay, one more thing like a authorized VPC network, because this particular service is not going to
be exposed to the outside world.
So it has to be inside a virtual private cloud.
So currently in a same project, we have already created number of virtual private cloud.
So what we are going to do, let me select the default one where we are already having a.
Subnetwork inside this US central region.
US Central One.
Okay.
So what we'll do, let's create our Redis instance and this Redis instance.
You just cannot communicate or connect from the outside world.
You have to have some other resource, like a compute engine, maybe Kubernetes engine inside the same
network and through the same network.
Only you can connect with this Redis instance.
So after creation of this instance, I'll show you you won't get any kind of public IP address.
You will get just the private IP address.
So this IP address is just the private to those particular network, a default network only.
Okay.
So creation of this Redis instance will take a little time.
So meanwhile, let's just go to our TerraForm part.
So TerraForm GCP.
And let's see what are the required parameters for Reddis creation.
Okay.
Memorystore Redis instance.
So we are going to use this resource type Google underscore reddish underscore instance.
And let's see what are the required stuff.
So name and memory size in GB I think required.
One.
We have alternate location ID auth, enable authorized network connect mode, so we'll be continuing
with the default value direct peering display name labels, location id reddest version you can provide
it tier region.
Okay, let's go to our Visual Studio code and create this Redis instance.
Meanwhile, this will be also ready for us.
So let me go to my.
Visual Studio code.
Okay, so currently I am inside my big table stuff.
Let me copy.
And create another one.
Let's say I'll give the name like the reddish.
Let me remove everything.
Resource google underscore redis instance.
So that will be redis from TF.
And there is a important one.
Like a name.
Name we want to provide.
So we'll use the same one.
Redis from TF.
Okay.
So name we have provided.
What is the other things?
Okay.
Memory size that is a in form of gigabyte you can provide.
Let's continue with the one.
Let's see in documentation what other things we require.
Okay.
Let me refresh, meanwhile, whether this instance is being created or not.
Okay.
Still, it's creating.
That's perfectly fine.
Okay.
We have.
Authorize network.
We are going to provide it.
They are saying that if left unspecified, the default network will be used.
If you don't have a default network, they say that this instance will not be created.
Okay, Here you can provide the radius information.
Okay.
Radius version information.
And here.
So we are going to continue with the basic one.
So what we'll do, we'll provide the information for authorized network.
Even if we don't provide it, it will be created in a default one.
So tier information basic and authorized network default.
And is there any other thing?
Yeah.
Location ID.
So John, for instance, will be provisioned if not provided.
Service will choose the John for the instance for standard high availability.
Instance will be created across the two John for the protection against John and failure.
If it is provided, it must be from the different John.
Okay, so let's provide a location ID also.
So let me create first tier.
Tier will be.
Let's go ahead with a basic one.
Location ID.
Now, earlier we created inside this US central one.
So now let's create inside, let's say in a Singapore zone.
So Singapore region would say, so let's go ahead with a zone of Singapore.
You can provide authorized network.
So that is not required.
But let's just provide default network.
If you want to provide explicitly some other network, you can always provide at this particular level.
Okay.
Redis version.
So earlier we use the Redis 4.0.
Let's see, is there any other Redis version being supported?
Yeah.
Red is from CC has been created.
You can see this green tick.
Let me go to create instance and let's just check.
Yeah we have a 6.0.
We have a 5.0 also.
So let provide a 5.0 how we are going to provide it.
So it will be a reddish underscore five underscore zero.
All right.
So I think this is the sufficient stuff.
We have one more like a display name.
So that is the Redis instance from TerraForm.
All right.
I think good enough.
So let me go back to our Redis folder.
Let's apply TerraForm init.
Let's plan for it.
And you can have a look at with this following configuration.
It is going to create a Redis instance.
Let me apply it.
Oops, we got issue.
So some equivalently same issue.
We keep getting.
So you can try to solve yourself.
Meanwhile, I'm just ending this video and in the next video, we'll see this issue.

--- [Hands-on] Cloud MemoryStore  with Terraform - II ---

All right, everyone.
So let's just fix this issue.
After giving some proper role assignment.
So let me quickly go to import.
And some memory store related role assignment we will do.
Let's say memory store.
Okay.
We can provide this rule that looks better, or I can just simply search for Redis.
That will be better.
Cloud Memorystore Redis admin.
And let's save it.
Now we can go to Visual Studio code and let's apply again.
Yes.
So our Redis instance just started creating from TerraForm script.
So let's just go to Cloud Console and let's explore about our Redis from this instance.
So if you go inside.
You will be able to see.
We have been provided one IP address and a port on which it is running.
C auth is also disabled.
We disabled it and there is no in-transit encryption enabled.
This is the authorized network.
A default one which we have used IT version 4.0.
Estimated costs.
Monthly.
$35.77.
Now, if you want to connect it, you want to use this Google compute engine and compute engine only.
You can use this Redis instance.
So this is the IP address and this is nothing but a local IP address of this default authorized network
only.
Okay.
So I think creation of this redis from will take little time.
So let's just wait for some time.
All right.
So after some five minutes, you can have a look at our Redis instance being created with a reddish
version 5.0 inside the east.
One location and another IP address has been assigned corresponding to the Singapore region.
All right, everyone.
So after that, it's a job of developer to connect to this Redis instance, start putting some kind
of data.
If you are a developer, if you are even non developer, I would suggest you create.
A compute engine instance.
And from this compute engine instance, try to connect this Redis instance.
Okay.
So what we are going to do, if we are not going to use this one, let's just simply delete it.
So to delete, we have to go inside.
And the option to delete.
So that is from CC.
And this red is from.
We are going to create or I would say destroy from our TerraForm script.
Yes, one resource will be destroyed.
Okay, so that is all about how to create a infrastructure for Memorystore Redis inside the Google Cloud
platform via TerraForm script.

--- Introduction - V2 ---

All right, everyone, welcome back.
So now onwards, uh, whatever video we are going to, uh, record that is, uh, considered as one
of the requested video I have observed in a question answer discussion, like, uh, there are many
services inside the Google Cloud Platform, which I didn't, uh, cover in a earlier part of this particular
course.
So after almost the one and a half years later, I am again, uh, recording more stuff related to how
to do resource provisioning via Terraform.
Uh, via Terraform script, I would say.
So the main idea now onwards will be, uh, to do this resource provisioning for many resources, which
we haven't included, uh, earlier.
I am not, uh, giving you any particular promise, but many other resources which we are going to now
create in the this section and a section onwards.
Okay.
And first of all, this is a completely different account which I am going to use it.
Uh, and I'm just going to continue with the one single project.
Uh, earlier many times we have used this Terraform related projects, but uh, now onwards, uh, this
is almost two years later.
I'm doing the same stuff for this particular course, so I'm just going to stick to one project that
is my GCP course project that is the only one and the same, uh, kind of update I'm going to do for
other courses also.
So please be with me.
I'm just going to use one single project.
Otherwise it's getting difficult for me to maintain and Google requires some kind of verification also.
Okay.
So that is one part now earlier project related.
Uh one.
Service account which exists, which we will keep using it.
But now those particular service account doesn't, uh, exist with me.
So I'm just going to go to from Im admin.
Let me just go to service account.
And I have already created one service account which we are going to use it that is tf hyphen, uh GCP.
And corresponding to that I have generated one uh key also available with me.
So in this video let's just have a uh setup.
And what are the change.
We are going to do it for the, uh, rest of the all resource provisioning we are going to do via Terraform
script.
Okay.
So now onwards.
So whatever new resource will create I am just going to use it like a GCP two.
That's better.
That is like a version two indication.
And uh.
First of all, there are some changes.
I have done it in this run.
Services.
Just the key dot JSON and some I think Main.tf.
So there are few stuff.
Uh, I, I put it in a test one also.
So the same one.
Let me just copy it here.
Or let me just copy.
Uh.
Provider.
And keys dot JSON main.tf I don't require.
Okay, so I'm just going to do all those experiment with me in this test folder.
Then I will record the video.
That's why it exists here.
So in a GCP two let me create a new folder like uh start okay.
And inside the start this is keys dot JSON that is corresponding to my service account.
And this is like my provider.
uh.tf.
Now earlier many times we have used like a 3.85.0 version, but corresponding to those particular version,
uh, there are many services doesn't exist.
So if I just go to Terraform GCP documentation, uh, you will be able to see that the most current
version which are currently available, that is a 5.20 1.0.
So what I am going to do, I'm just going to change it to 5.20 1.0.
Okay.
So these are the changes.
Uh, we are going to apply for the future projects.
Projects.
So that is my GCP course project.
Let me just make sure that I am pointing to the correct one, the correct project ID that is same as
this one, my GCP course project.
Apart from that uh, region and zone, let's just keep it some of the default values and credential
that is keys dot JSON which we are referring to.
Okay.
Now let me just go to GCP two.
And inside that let say start.
And I'm just going to go ahead with Terraform init.
Nothing.
Apart from that we are going to do now onwards we are going to use this uh Terraform 520 1.0.
You can have a look at in a test.
There are many more resources.
I tried to create it like a API key artifact registry.
There is a, uh, identity and access management service account.
So all those things we are going to see onwards.
Okay.
So that is just like a very introduction part.
Uh, I thought I should create it and give you some foundation that what are the change we are going
to apply for our future video in this particular course.
And uh, what are the other resource we are going to create?
And as I told you, that I am not promising for any specific resource, but many other resources.
I think that I should include it.
And that's why, uh, I thought I should, uh, start recording more and more videos about it.
Okay, so I hope you are excited for the next phase or the second phase.
And if you think that, uh, there is some particular resource I need to create, just put it in a question
answer discussion forum, I and my, uh, team member will try to look into it that what are the, uh,
different resource needs to be created via Terraform script, which is in demand.
Okay, so that's all about this video and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Creating API keys with Terraform Part  1  -  V2 ---

All right everyone, welcome back.
So in this video, uh, let's just have a look at how you can generate this API key.
So first we are going to see this, uh, generation of those API key for the various different API inside
the Google and its related product, plus Google Cloud Platform related products via console.
And then we'll go for, uh, Terraform, I would say via Terraform script.
So from the search I'm just going to search for credential.
See credential, API and services.
I'll show you how you can create this API.
So first of all, let me just create a credential.
So there are multiple ways you can create those credential service account.
Also you can create directly from here.
Also there is a one more like a OAuth client.
So in case user consent you want uh from the user's data you can use this one.
Uh here we are going to uh see how to create this API key so that uh, with the help of those API key
you can uh call to particular API.
So let me just create this API key and it will just simply generate those API key for me.
Once the API key will be generated I can uh, edit those API key.
I can go inside and change all those relevant settings out of it.
Okay.
So you can see for which particular first is just a simple name.
Currently this key is unrestricted.
And to provide this unauthorized access, uh, you need to restrict it.
So you want to restrict to some specific application like uh, on website.
Only someone can use it.
You can provide those, uh, website information.
Uh, you can just select from some particular IP address.
You can use it or you want to access those API from Android apps only or from iOS app.
You can do it okay.
If you don't want to restrict, uh, put any kind of restriction, you can select this particular one.
Otherwise you can restrict those key to some specific API.
Let's say I just want to use cloud DNS API only.
So those API you can select and let me save it.
So what it says that in a note it may take five minutes to propagate all those settings.
So let me just save it.
So this way API key being generated okay.
You can even see the complete key directly from here.
You can use this key now to call this DNS API.
But let's say if you want to uh call some BigQuery API, you just cannot do it.
So those restriction will be applied here.
Okay.
Now what we are going to do we'll just go to Terraform.
And here we have Terraform Google Cloud documentation.
Let me just search for API okay.
So this is not a API.
We are referring to API.
We are not referring to this one.
See we have API key and there is only one resource one can create out of it.
Okay.
So one of the examples let's say some basic example uh, we can take into consideration and we can create
the similar API directly uh from our Terraform script okay.
And afterwards we'll just explore about this documentation a little bit more okay.
So first ever thing let me just go to my VS code.
And I'm just going to copy both of these file keys dot JSON and provider.tf uh in a GCP two.
Let me create one more folder like let's say API.
Or I would say that is better term would be API keys, because that's what we are trying to generate
as a resources.
Okay.
And one more file will be main.tf.
Okay.
Uh, remaining all thing will just keep it as it is.
We don't bother about all those stuff.
Main.tf is imported, okay?
It's not a man.
It's a main.
Little typo here.
Okay.
Let me simply copy.
So I think this basic one, I'm just going to copy it.
Let me put it here and we'll just do all those necessary changes.
Okay.
Google projects already we have defined inside this provider dot uh tf file.
So we don't need to give this detail like uh, which project we are referring to.
So let me remove this particular block okay.
The remaining all things uh, let's just have a little explanation about it, okay?
Project information.
Even if you don't give here, that's a perfectly fine just because, uh, we have already provided those
default project information inside this provider.tf, through which it is just taken into consideration
about it.
Okay.
Name, uh, display name.
So through which name you want to create it, let's say, uh, key and some display name will be sample
key.
Uh, any restriction you want to apply.
So that is API targets that this particular key will be used just for the calling translate dot Google
APIs, dot com and matter through which you are going to uh, call this API.
That is get method only if you want to post.
You can include as a post also and browser key restriction.
So from any browser you can go ahead like this.
Okay so without much further ado, let's just go ahead to our API key.
And afterwards we'll just have a exploration about the different attributes.
And uh, different more uh, features are available while creation of those API key via Terraform script.
So in API key as usual, our standard way of going Terraform in it just to download this Google version
plugin.
All right.
Terraform plan.
Let's see.
What are the resources just going to create?
There is only one resource we are expecting one to add with this following changes or I won't say changes
with following configuration.
Okay, so the next thing will be terraform apply.
We actually want to create it.
Yeah.
Do you really want to perform this action?
Yes.
And you can see just started creating and immediately we got, uh, some issue.
So what it says that service is disabled.
Okay.
So what is the issue here.
Service is disabled.
So what we can do uh, they have provided some URL.
So let me just follow this particular link.
Copy.
And I'll just go to API key.
So based on error, we are just following what we want to do.
So we want to enable some APIs uh, for doing or creation of those API key.
So just to use this API generation key there is a API key needs to be enabled.
So don't get confused about it.
Let me just enable.
And the next thing is we are just simply going to.
Call this Terraform.
Apply once again.
All right.
So I guess that is being enabled.
Now we can fire terraform init once again.
Let's see if any other errors will get.
Hopefully.
Okay, one more error.
So I'm expecting that there should be some different error.
Yes.
So what it says that, uh.
Permission denied.
So now.
The service account through which we are trying to create this API key.
It doesn't have this particular permission, so let me just copy.
And I'll just go to my Google Cloud Console.
And first ever thing is I'm just going to go to IAM and admin.
Okay, I should have go to IAM admin from this particular tab.
That's fine.
Okay.
In a roles let's see which particular role contain this permission.
So I'll just search for from the roles API keys keys dot get okay so editor and all those high level
uh very generic role has those permission.
But we'll just restrict to some specific one.
Uh, let's say API key admin would be the best suitable one for us.
So I'll just assign to my service account my okay service account.
Where is service account okay.
We don't have a service account.
That is strange.
Uh, let me put it in a not pay which role needs to be assigned.
That is API keys, admin and my service account.
Okay.
We haven't assigned any role to the service account.
That's why it simply doesn't exist.
So let me go to my service account.
Let me copy.
The Earl.
And now I can assign some role to the service account.
Let me grant access.
And which role.
So we know that this is the role which we want to assign.
So I can search for this role API keys admin.
So what it says that see or with this API key admin ability to create, delete, update and get a list
of API keys for the project.
That's perfectly fine.
That is what we are expecting and we'll just quickly go to our VS code.
Let me apply.
Yes.
And oops again we got some issue.
So what is the issue.
Let's just trying to figure it out.
So what is is that a resource already exists.
Apply block by lifecycle parameters.
So what I am expecting that now we can just simply change the name might be with the same name I earlier
also created.
That's why it has created those issue.
It's a good that we just keep getting such kind of problems.
Let's just wait for some time and afterwards in the next video only, we'll just continue ahead from
here and bang on, we are successfully able to create, uh, one resources.
Now we'll just go to simply.
Our API key.
Let me search for credential once again.
Whether?
Yeah.
New, uh, keys being created.
You can just have a look at in inside it.
Uh, there is some restriction.
We applied from the website only, so from all referrers.
So I'll just try to map it.
And one API being allowed that is cloud translation.
Now how will you, uh, get all those, uh, stuff like, uh, which is the API needs to be written,
which services needs to be written, browser key restriction we just allowed from everywhere.
That's why website is allowed.
No androids are allowed.
So we'll just have a detailed explanation about, uh, the complete documentation so you'll get a better
idea related to all other features.
Okay, so that's all about this video and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Creating API keys with Terraform Part  2  -  V2 ---

All right, everyone, so let's just continue our discussion on, uh, how to create this API key resource
via Terraform.
Okay.
So in the last video, we have successfully created one API key via Terraform script.
Now let's just have a detailed documentation related to those key in a Terraform.
So you can see there are some example earlier uh, they have given uh like uh how to create those key
for Android just for the iOS or with some minimal key.
Now if you just have a look at the complete argument reference, you'll get a better idea.
There are some required stuff, like a name you need to supply, a loud application that through which
application?
Uh, you want to use your API, understand uh, display name.
It's optional.
One for the project under which you want to create those API key, some API key restrictions.
So if you just click upon this restriction you can use them for uh, Android key restriction for a API
targets I got here.
What we.
Yeah.
Uh, we have the back of this, uh, me browser restriction and it applies to web.
And we just look at write Android key restriction.
So in that particular case, uh, you can see this Android key on an API like the targets, the metadata
you are allowed to see.
Uh, if you want to know the different services and you're available, you can use like a G cloud list.
Let me just to just and I'm just going to go to my command line prompt.
Let me just put it now in this particular case, first ever thing, uh, you need to have a confirmed
login from your G cloud or I would say g cloud auth login.
Let me just try.
Once again.
In my case it's already authenticated and it has redirect me here.
Let me just, uh, authenticate with my.
Account allow all those stuff.
And successfully authenticated, and in my case the project is also being configured.
So in your case, if the project is not configured, you can use it like gcloud config set project.
What is my project ID that is this one, so that whatever operation will perform that is a part of this
particular project.
Okay.
Afterwards, uh, we are in a position to fire this particular command gcloud services list, which
will tell us that.
What are the services are currently listed.
So gcloud services list will give us the complete, uh, information about the service.
Because while calling this, uh, API key generation via Terraform script, you just need to supply
like, let's say a cloud trace API.
Uh, you want to generate the API key for Cloud Trace API.
So you can use this service like this.
So this way all the services are available.
You.
Okay.
So that is about the uh services.
Some browser restriction allowed Referrers.
So everything you can refer to this particular uh, documentation and you can go ahead.
Apart from that there are some timeouts like creation when you try to update this key or delete some
key.
Uh, there are default timeout like a 20 minutes.
If this resource creation is going beyond this 20 minutes, uh, it won't allow you to create it.
It will be like a terminated.
Okay.
So you can see all all the restriction and everything as arguments.
Take uh, it's available here.
So Android key restriction allowed application.
Everything you can refer.
And the important part is let's say Android.
So from the android, uh, from some particular application of Android, you want to call this one.
So in that particular case you can provide those package name and your fingerprint for those particular
Android application for which particular API you want to generate it.
So those things you can provide it as a API target if you just have a look at the iOS.
The similar thing applies here.
So the API targets iOS key restriction so allowed bundle ID.
That means from this particular package only it will be allowed.
Okay.
So this is where there are a lot of uh, customization uh offer directly from the Terraform itself,
uh, which you can get uh, from your.
API keys from the console.
Also, now we don't require both of these.
Key because it can be.
Use for the some bad purpose also.
So what I'm going to do as usual.
Earlier we did so destroy.
Now this destroy is going to destroy just the one API key which we have created from here.
So other cloud console stuff will just destroy from our cloud console itself.
So we just started destroying.
Let me just, uh.
Refresh how we can refresh.
And one which we created from the Terraform script being deleted.
Let me select another one and let me just simply delete.
I don't require oops.
Yeah.
All right, everyone, that is all about how to create this, uh, API key for the various different,
uh, services based on different kind of restriction you can create via Terraform script.

--- [Hands-on] Creating Artifact Registry with Terraform Part  1  -  V2 ---

All right everyone.
So another product in a Google Cloud platform that is artifact registry, the advanced version of your
container registry.
So how we are going to provision those artifact registry via console and via Terraform script in this
video.
We'll see.
So first of all let me just navigate to.
Artifact registry.
Okay, so universal building artifact management system.
So there are a lot of features Google has added compared to your container registry.
Okay.
So in my case the API is already enabled.
So it has simply redirected me directly here.
So let me just create completely new repository.
So here you can see repo.
From CC, the cloud console, you can create the repository of docker type maven type python npm any
c standard way.
So we'll just go ahead with the docker one regional or multi-regional.
So you can create uh or store it in a multiple different region once you select this multiple region.
So either it uh is in a all the regions are available in Asia.
So you don't need to worry where Google will store your repository or in Europe or in US.
Let's just continue ahead with the regional one.
Let's say US central one okay.
Google manage encryption key.
And at the end just uh, simply clean up policy.
So delete artifacts.
So artifacts will be deleted according to clean up policy criteria in case you selected this one.
And artifacts here will not be deleted.
Clean up policy first will be evaluated.
So let's just continue and create it.
So this way the artifact registry will be created.
So this is the one resource we have created inside the artifact registry.
And you can have a look at that is like a Docker type.
Now there is a one more resource we are going to create where we are going to, uh, give permission
on the top of this particular repository to some other user.
Okay.
Let's see how we can do.
And both of these things later we are going to achieve via Terraform script.
So let me just select and you can see on the top we have a show info panel.
So here all the inherited permission and the permission which you will assign for this particular repository
will be available here.
So on this particular repository you can see artifact registry service agent role is applied for this
particular service account.
Let's say we want to apply some role like a artifact registry reader role.
Or uh let's see is there any other roles are available or not?
Let me just uh, I'm just going to keep this IAM part as it is because in case we want to assign some
role in future.
Okay.
So I can go to IAM, let me just go to roles.
Uh, oops.
There is some issue.
Some page loading issue.
All right.
Now I just want to filter based on used in let's say artifact registry.
So all the roles related to artifact registry, uh, will be available here.
So we have artifact registry leader role.
We have artifact registry writer role, administrator role.
Let's say any one of the role.
Uh, let let me just try for this artifact registry writer role, okay.
And I just want to assign to some person on this particular repo so I can add some principal.
Uh, let's say I'm not sure which particular email ID I will use it.
So let's say I have a one.
It should be valid email ID okay I mean valid account and oops.
So email address and domain.
Okay, there is some flashlight at gmail.com.
This email ID is available with me.
Yeah it's accepted.
Okay, roll which you want to assign.
So let's say I want to assign artifact registry.
Let's say read a roll itself and let me save it.
So this way, on this particular repository we have added one roll.
Uh, it's not available.
Yes, yes.
See, this is available same way.
Both of these things we are just going to achieve via Terraform script.
So for that, let me just go to my Visual Studio Code.
All right, let me close existing stuff and what I'm going to do, I'm just simply going to copy key
main and provider.tf file.
Let me create.
Artifact registry.
Okay.
Okay, let me remove everything here.
Okay.
How you are going to, uh.
Go ahead.
So first thing is let me.
Go to documentation of Terraform.
And here I'm just going to search for artifact registry.
Okay.
So this is what we are interested.
Artifact registry.
So without much further ado, let's just go ahead with all those minimal configuration.
Then we'll explore about different arguments like a required one will be repository ID and a format
in which you want to store.
Or you want to create this, uh, repository.
Okay.
So let me just go ahead with a basic one.
Let me copy.
And I'm just going to keep the data here.
Okay.
So what it says that it's just going to create Google Artifact Registry Repository.
And this resource name from the Terraform perspective we are going to give the name like a my repo location
where you want to create US central one repository ID my repository.
Uh let's say repo from Terraform.
So repo from tf okay.
Uh description some example one and a format.
So that is like a docker.
You can give npm and all other which is being supported.
Now let me go ahead to GCP to artifact registry.
Terraform init.
So we're just going to download 5.20 1.0 version.
Uh oops.
Uh there is some issue.
So fail to install provider error while installing HashiCorp.
Local error.
Let me just try once again is there any issue?
Doesn't look like any issue.
Oops.
So what?
It says that TLS bad record Hmac might be some internet, uh, connectivity has some issue.
Let me just check.
No.
Error while installing.
Some TLS connection is creating some issue.
Let me try with the upgrade.
All right, so it's done.
So maybe, uh, it might happen that there are some log file already exists.
The.
But just now we have created this registry.
But that's fine.
It works.
We are happy.
Let me try with, uh, terraform plan.
And then we are going to.
Update it.
So apply one repository, one resource will be created.
Yes.
Yeah, we got error.
That is permission denied.
So which permission they are expecting?
Like a artifact repository.
Create permission.
Let's just go and search inside.
All the roles are available.
So here.
In those particular permission will assign to our service account.
Okay.
So that is the part of artifact Registry Administrator.
And we have to provide this one only.
So that is like a bare minimum one.
So I'll go to IAM.
Let me.
Oh, yeah.
Artifact.
Registry.
Administrator.
Let me save it.
Okay, now I can again apply.
Oops.
IAM permission denied.
So what is IAM here?
Artifact registry creator.
Okay, we have assigned.
Maybe this propagation might take some time.
So let's just try once again.
Hopefully it should have been propagated now.
Whatever policy update we have done.
Oops.
No.
Okay.
Let me just cross check whether we have successfully added.
Okay.
This is what the service account we are using.
Let me just make sure.
TF GCP.
Project ID yes, that is correct.
One tf GCB and in the last video also we have used the uh same one and you can see we have successfully
assigned it.
Let's just try once again.
Many times this is the only issue that I just take some time to propagate.
Uh, hopefully it's work.
So now we can go to our cloud console and let me verify whether new.
Oops.
So nudging arrow.
Let me pick some time I don't want to restart now.
Uh, okay.
Uh, let me refresh.
So we are expecting there should be two repository now.
Uh, okay.
My repository name only came.
See, I changed the name, actually.
So my repository how do.
Okay, let me just go to plan.
Okay in a plan.
See, it's the my repository.
That's why I just created my repository.
But that's perfectly fine.
That is just the change of name only.
Okay, so that is the one thing we have I mean successfully created.
Now how to add those permission which we tried to do via Cloud console.
So exactly similar thing we are going to achieve via Terraform script but in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Creating Artifact Registry with Terraform Part  2  -  V2 ---

All right everyone.
So in the new repository which we have created from the Terraform in the last video, we are going to
assign some role just like earlier we did for repo from CC.
So if you just have a look at artifact registry reader role we have assigned same thing.
If you want to achieve via Terraform, you can use the another resource like a Google artifact registry
repository IAM.
So we have IAM policies.
Also available are yeah see IAM policy.
Okay, so what are we are going to do?
Let me.
Just go to.
Let's take a any one of them.
This particular example.
Let me just add it and I'll explain you what's going on here.
Okay.
So what it says that first is just going to create one data module where it's just going to assign some
artifact registry dot reader role to this particular user.
So this is just the data being created.
Let's say I'm just going to create this role.
And I want to assign to this particular user okay.
That is like a admin.
And this data is nothing but Google IAM policy.
Now here the project's location we don't require repository and policy data is important.
So which repository you are referring to that is Google Artifact registry repository.
Okay inside that my repo name.
That is correct.
So this is the repository we are referring to and which policy you want to bind.
So you want to bind with this data Google IAM policy admin dot policy data.
And that is nothing but.
This one that on this particular repository.
You assign artifact registry reader role to this particular user, let me just make sure it's a correct.
Yeah, it's a not a flashlight at gmail.com.
That is the correct user.
Okay.
Now exactly same thing we want to achieve.
Let me just go for a plan.
Now here.
Definitely just going to create some problems.
So you can see what it says that it's just going to create a two resource which are the two resources
where we are interested.
See.
My repository earlier.
The name is now just going to change to a repo prompt.
TF so indirectly it's just going to create one more repository.
And to the new repository is just going to uh, assign this particular role for this user.
Okay.
So let's just go ahead and let's see how it's going to create a two resource instead of one.
Yes.
So my repo, it just started going to destroy it, see, and started creating first the repository and
then uh, binding those policy with that.
Okay.
Now I can go to.
My repository.
Let me refresh the complete one.
And bang on c c in repo from tf.
If you just have a look at all the roles you will be able to see.
Artifact registry reader role has been assigned to this particular user.
Okay, now if you just have a look at the complete documentation, you will be able to see, uh, there
are lot other arguments like uh format.
So supported formats will be available here.
So we have used just the Docker only okay.
Meanwhile I can go ahead and I'm just simply going to destroy it.
Yes.
Okay.
And Cloud console repository will destroy later.
Okay.
So you can see these are all supported formats like a Docker Java related, uh, Python related.
All those things.
Location where you want to create it.
If you don't give, some default location will be taken into consideration.
So this way, while creation of this repository, whatever option, we have selected, all those options
you can configure to this, uh, clean up policy.
Also you can define it here Maven configuration.
But we just deal with uh simple Docker image configuration, only some tags.
Also you can supply from here.
Now, depending on different repository like a Python base you want to store.
So in that particular case some configuration option uh will be default.
Apart from that the majority of stuff will remain same.
Okay.
So our repository also being deleted.
And the repository which we have created from the cloud console.
Also we just want to delete it okay.
Apart from that you can always refer to the complete documentation.
And you can see there are lot many options they have provided here.
See this is like a Docker example we have taken.
But then uh apt example also they have given one.
So in that particular case some of the option will be default.
Here.
It's a yum format based example.
Clean up policy how you can define it okay.
All right everyone.
So my idea in this video just for you to get started that how you can provision the resource of artifact
registry via terraform script.

--- [Hands-on] Creating Cloud Scheduler with Terraform Part  1  -  V2 ---

All right everyone welcome back.
So in this video our focus will be on another product that is a cloud scheduler.
So let me just search for scheduler.
Scheduler definitely is a part of, uh, cloud task.
Yeah.
See, as a part of integration services.
So what does scheduler here mean?
So whenever you want to run your job based on some cron expression, you want to execute some workload.
You can use this scheduler.
So let's just take one example and let's just create one job.
Now here there are two kinds of job.
One is App Engine cron job where we are not interested, where it is specifically designed for just
the App Engine web application execution based on some cron expression.
Here it's a generalized scheduler.
So let me just create one job okay.
So let's just give the name of job from CC.
As usual.
Many times we are done okay.
Frequency.
So here uh I'm not going to go into detail about the stuff related to your cron expression okay.
So this cron expression you can learn more about it here.
Uh.
Okay.
I don't know why the link immediately disappeared.
Okay, for now, I just want to execute everything as at every single minute.
Okay.
So what?
It says that when you put the cron expression something like this, it is just going to execute at every
single minute, okay.
Now, how does this particular work?
You can go to this particular link and learn more about this cron expression like this.
So first star here indicates the minute where you can give the value from 0 to 59 hours.
The next one where the value range from 0 to 23 is same way it goes for another three star like, uh,
day of the month, month and the day of the week.
Okay, so depending on how periodically you want to execute your job, you can define your cron expression
here okay.
Time zone.
So I am currently in India so I'll just go ahead with the Indian Standard Time IST okay.
So this is like a frequency which we have defined.
The next thing which we want to define that uh, based on uh, this trigger what you want to execute
because that's a very, very important.
Let me just close this one.
Okay.
So either you can execute some, uh, particular URL like a HTTP and provide like a Get request, Post
request, or, uh, you can execute the complete workflow where we are not interested.
Now, uh, let's say we can execute, uh, like a pub sub topic also.
So based on some periodic interval, uh, or based on the cron expression you have defined, let's say
you want to send some message to some particular topic.
Okay.
So currently we don't have any topic.
So let me just create uh uh topic.
Let's say topic from Cloud Console.
Everything is from Cloud Console.
I'm not going to detail about any other part for now.
Same way we require some subscription also to pull the messages.
Okay, so in this video completely from the cloud console only, we'll just work upon afterwards in
the next video.
Exactly similar process we will do from.
Terraform script.
Okay.
Message.
So hello from Cloud Console okay.
That's better.
Let me continue.
So after every one minute this just gonna.
Put message or throw some message inside this particular topic.
Okay.
Uh, these are the options related to your job execution, like, uh, maximum retry attempts.
So if the job being failed, how many times you want it to retrieve continuously maximum retrieve duration.
So all those things will just keep it as it is and let me just create it.
Meanwhile, what I'm going to do, I'm just going to go to my subscription here.
So for that I have to navigate to Pub Sub.
Real time messaging stuff.
Okay, so job being created, you can see the next run is going to happen at 11:03 a.m..
See, currently it's 1102.
So after every one minute it's just going to execute once and you can see the topic being created.
But from this particular topic how we are going to pull the message.
So for that we require some subscription.
So I'm just going to create a new subscription let's say sub from CC, which is the topic from which
you want to pull remaining all thing.
I'm just going to keep it as it is.
That's where we are not interested currently.
All right.
Let me refresh.
Yeah.
See one successful.
That means one message has been sent to the topic.
Okay.
Now the same thing.
Uh, we can pull from our topic also via this subscription.
Okay.
I can pull from here or.
Okay.
That is just the dashboard.
Okay.
We are interested in a topic so we can just go inside the topic.
Let me go to messages.
I can publish message from here also or I can.
Pull the message from here also.
Okay, let me pull it.
And we are expecting at least one message.
Yeah.
Hello world from Cloud Console.
Now, the second time also, you will get a same message because this is like a constant message.
Uh, just for the learning purpose, we have created this particular job.
Okay, let me refresh.
Uh, is it done the second one.
See?
11 four.
Also done.
11 four.
Done.
So we are expecting 11 five.
It is just going to execute your next job to run.
Let me pull once again.
No.
So far it's just the one only.
Let's just wait for one more to happen.
Let me refresh.
Soon.
It's just going to happen.
Still, it's 11 for only.
So let's just wait for some time.
Yeah.
It's done.
See, the next execution happens.
Let me pull it.
So we are expecting there are two messages still not appeared here, but that's perfectly fine.
Let me collapse.
Remaining stuff.
Yeah.
See, the second time.
Also, the same message appear when we pull from our topic.
All right, so we have successfully created this topics and I don't want it to run continuously.
So what I'm going to do I'm just going to select and let me pause for now this particular job.
So it will not uh send continuously this particular message hello world from cloud console to the our
topic a pub sub topic.
Okay.
So this is the complete flow from the cloud console.
The next thing similar stuff we are going to achieve from the Terraform script.
And those things we will see in the next video.

--- [Hands-on] Creating Cloud Scheduler with Terraform Part  2  -  V2 ---

All right everyone, welcome back.
So the similar things which we achieved in the last video via Cloud Console, same thing we are going
to achieve via Terraform script now.
So let me just make a note.
What are the resource we need to create.
Or I can just directly go to my.
Visual Studio Code.
Okay.
And let me just simply I can even copy the complete folder itself.
Okay.
Let me change the name.
Let's say.
Scheduler.
Okay, here everything will remain as it is.
We are interested in a main.tf.
So here, what are the changes we need to apply?
Or I would say let me make it command prompt okay.
First we need to create the topic.
Oops.
There are a lot of shortcuts.
Uh, next thing is subscription.
I need to create.
And the last thing is, uh, scheduler job I need to create.
Okay, so all those things are one by one will create.
Okay.
So as far as topics are concerned we can use like a resource.
Google pub sub topic okay.
Can I not getting.
Okay.
I don't know why it's not giving any kind of suggestion.
Let me remove all this stuff.
Okay, I can.
Resource resource.
This is a strange thing where it's not giving any kind of suggestion.
Let me just try with pub sub.
Or maybe it may happen that, uh, I do initialize this, uh, terraform at this particular level.
So let me just go to CD.
Uh, CD where GP2.
Scheduler.
Terraform.
Init.
Yeah.
It's done.
Okay, so even if you do not get any kind of, uh, suggestion, that's fine.
I think some, uh, extension might be disabled.
We can just take, uh, topic and subscription creation directly from here.
So, pub sub topic.
Okay with bare minimum.
We'll just go ahead.
Let me just put it, uh, topic like this.
And we have a.
Subscription.
So.
Subscription.
Yeah.
Google pub sub subscription.
So here.
Uh, okay.
I don't want to put a lot of, uh, stuff, but that's fine.
Let me just simply copy.
And we'll modify all those stuff.
Okay, see here also the topic because without topic, what is the meaning of subscription?
There is no meaning.
Okay, so Google pub sub topic.
Let's say the name will give like a topic itself.
And what is the example topic?
Uh topic name.
So topic name will be topic from TF as usual.
And this is like a subscription or subscription we are creating from TF same way topic also from TF.
Okay.
What is the name of subscription?
Uh, let's say same sub sub underscore TF.
We'll just use it okay.
What is the topic name.
So here it won't be like a example.
So it will be a topic topic_tf.id okay.
Uh nothing.
Apart from that.
Anything we explicitly require.
So I'm just simply going to delete okay.
And what we are going to do uh without creating those scheduler.
Uh, let me just go ahead and create this two resource first.
So I'm just going to create two resource and let's see if any errors will get or not.
So Terraform apply.
Okay.
User not authorized to perform this action.
Might be they haven't given verbose very good.
But, uh, we know that, uh, many time, uh, we have to assign.
Some roll to the service account, so we'll just go to Im.
And pub sub related roles will assign here.
To the.
Hmm.
Not this one.
Yeah.
So cloud pub sub like in search.
See pub sub admin only will give.
Let me save it and I'll just go ahead and start creating topic.
Topic and subscription both.
Yeah.
Not getting any issues.
So most probably it yeah it just started creating.
So I can go to my console and let's just search for by refreshing the page.
Yeah.
See topic from TF being created.
And let's just make sure in a subscription also things being created.
Ah yeah.
Subscription from TF also being created.
Okay, now I can go to topic from TF still scheduler.
The main important part we haven't created yet.
I can go to message and in future we are just simply going to pull the message from here.
That's what we are expecting.
Okay.
Now the next important part will be.
Create a scheduler job just like earlier we have created.
So for that let me just search for.
Scheduler.
Yeah.
So we have just one resources in a cloud scheduler.
All right.
So I can just use the very first template.
And let's just try to add it inside it.
Okay.
So that is like a third resource we are going to create.
Okay.
Now you can have a look at it's just going to create a Google Cloud scheduler job.
Let's say scheduler uh job name they have given like uh let's say job from Terraform.
So no description I want to add it schedule after every two minutes.
Instead of that I just want to do it for every one minute.
Or even if you don't give this one, it is like equivalent to after every one minute and your pub sub
target.
So instead of pub sub target, if you just have a look at uh your argument reference.
Your App Engine.
Target is also available via HTTP.
Target is also available.
So all those things you can define here.
So we are interested in a pub sub target okay.
And related to pub sub.
Uh all those parameters one can add it.
So here we have already provided the topic name into which you want to keep.
Uh I mean you want to send your message.
So here it will be Google pub sub.
Uh.
Okay.
Uh, this thing needs to be removed.
Earlier we have already created.
So google pub sub topic topic_tf.id and what data what exit message you want to send.
So let's say uh hello from Terraform okay.
And let me quickly do plan and once again apply.
So it just uh going to create one resource afterwards.
The earlier two resource which we have created, we have not made any kind of changes.
All right.
So.
So far, no issue.
Okay.
We got so again same problem cloud scheduler job creates.
Uh, permission is missing.
So we can quickly assign those permission or I would say assign those role.
So let me just search for.
Cloud scheduler admin.
That's better.
And I can quickly run it.
So fully okay.
Still same issue.
Might be propagation is taking always time, so we should not be that much in hurry.
Always while creation of those resource.
Hopefully.
Oops oops oops oops.
Not yet.
Let me try once again, or we'll again cross check whether those thing successfully propagated or not.
Ah, yeah.
I think it just started creating.
Now we can go to console.
Let me just go for.
Job scheduler.
One job Veeho successfully paused it.
Oops oops oops oops I don't know why.
So lakes IAM permission.
Let me just cross check once again.
See, we have successfully added cloud scheduler admin role and hopefully this particular role, uh,
contains those permission to create the job.
Yeah, let me try once again last time, or we'll try to debug with some different way.
All right, so it's being created.
The only issue is that, uh, this permission or a policy which we have assigned that is taking little
time to propagate.
All right.
So one is already successful.
We can go to topic from TF.
Let me pull the message.
And we are expecting hello world from Terraform.
Yes, we got it.
So this is also going to run after every one minute.
So successfully.
We have accomplished this cloud scheduler job running and creation of those resource from the Terraform
script.
Now I don't require this thing so I'm just going to destroy oops.
There are some typo.
Okay, so this will anyhow is gonna destroy.
But this CC related job I need to destroy or delete manually.
Okay.
Topic also.
CC, let me delete it and the last one will be.
Yeah.
The job being deleted.
Last one will be subscription, and we'll just simply wind up from here.
All right, everyone, that is all about this video and I'll catch you in the next one.

--- [Hands-on] Creating Cloud Run Job with Terraform -  V2 ---

All right everyone.
So in this video we are going to, uh, provision a Google Cloud run job resources via Terraform script.
So let me just quickly go to Google Cloud Run.
And you can have a look at.
You can deploy your workload as a service which is continuously run.
But in case you want to deploy as a job, that means, uh, deploy it, get your job done.
And destroy all those resources automatically.
So that is the another way to deploy and get your job done via jobs.
So let me just go ahead and create a simple job and the same thing we are going to achieve via Terraform.
So let me just test with a simple container which is we are going to use it.
So let me just copy and I'm just going to keep it uh, somewhere in a let's say notepad.
All right.
So let's say job from CC.
Uh, number of tasks.
How many times you want to execute it?
Let's say just once only, uh, remaining all thing.
I'm just going to keep it as it is.
And I just want to execute this job immediately.
Okay.
Now similar thing we are going to achieve via Terraform.
So let me just go to Terraform GCP.
And let me search for a run.
Google Cloud Run, but we are interested in a, uh, v2 version API.
So you can see you can deploy as a service Google Cloud run V2 services or Google Cloud run V2 job.
So here we want to, uh, go ahead as a job so we can just simply go ahead with this basic template.
And maybe in future we can, uh, keep adding more.
Uh.
Templating stuff.
Here are more features okay.
You can configure it.
So very first thing let me copy.
And I guess our job is ready.
Let me just make sure it has been executed correctly.
Yeah.
Once it has been succeeded and nothing so far has been running.
So one time it has been executed.
If you just have a look at the log corresponding to that something being started and it being executed
exited based on whatever template, uh, container image we have used.
Okay.
Now we are interested in this, uh, particular same job, uh, provisioning via Terraform.
So let me go to my Visual Studio Code, and I'm just going to copy, let's say this scheduler, I can
copy it in a GCP two.
Okay, let me just give the name like a.
Run job.
Okay.
Remaining all thing will remain as it is.
I'm just going to remove this one.
Okay, so here we are just simply going to copy our basic stuff.
Let me put it here.
Okay.
So the image which we have copied let me just make sure that is same as this one.
Okay.
You can use cloud run container job.
Okay.
That is a little different, but that's perfectly fine I can yeah we can use this one.
And that is good enough for us.
Exactly.
Similar thing we want to achieve.
But now via Terraform script.
So you can see the resource which we are using.
That is a Google Cloud run v2 API job, the name of this resource.
Uh, let's just keep it same as default one okay.
Cloud run job from TF.
That is from or I would say we'll just write like a job from TF, okay.
Where you want to deploy location.
And that is the important stuff like a template.
So that is the bare minimum that which particular uh Docker image you want to run it.
Okay.
So these are the bare minimum stuff.
I can just simply go ahead to GCP two.
Let me go to run job.
And I'm just going to go ahead with a Terraform init once again.
Just want to make sure that we have the correct version.
Okay.
5.20 1.1.
Okay.
Now let me just go ahead and plan.
All right.
So one new resource will be created after you apply.
And there are a lot of things, uh, you will get to know after, uh, you apply for it.
There are some of the things which is by default, that is a default value.
I would say, okay, let me go ahead and do Terraform apply.
Yes.
All right.
So again permission issue.
So run job create.
So we'll just assign uh run related some permission.
Let me quickly go to IAM part.
And here I'm going to assign some run related permission to our service account.
All right, so tf Gqf.
Uh, we don't have any run related role assignment yet.
Okay, so let me just search for cloud run.
Yeah, this is the cloud run.
So I'll just simply go ahead and, uh, give the role like a full control over cloud run the source
cloud run admin role.
Let me save it.
And I can go back to my Visual Studio Code and let me just do Terraform apply.
Yes.
And I guess it just started creating.
Okay.
Uh, oops.
Uh, there is some issue.
So what it says that, uh, there is a one more permission needs to be given.
Like IAM service account act as denied on a service account.
Okay.
So on this particular service account, see because internally there is a one service account which
is handling this particular job.
So on this particular service account let me just go ahead and search for this service account on our
cloud console.
Yeah.
So on this one I have to provide one more services because that is like a default service account.
Uh.
Associated with your cloud run job.
Okay.
So you need to provide this particular permission.
Okay.
IAM service account access.
So this permission is a part of which particular role that needs to be figured out.
So I'll just go to all listed role.
And let me search for.
So here I'm just going to search for IAM service account Actas.
So there are a lot of uh already being uh given like a cloud deploy service account, cloud run service
agent, okay, cloud run service agent.
And this role earlier also I have assigned.
So I guess it should not create any issue for us cloud run service agent.
So what I can do I can just try for Terraform apply once again because earlier only I have given it.
Let me just check whether this propagation has created any issue or not.
Oops.
So what?
It says that permission IAM service account act as denied on a service account.
This one.
Okay, so let me just do cloud run service agent.
That is the correct one.
Even once you have provided the editor role on.
This particular service account.
Let me just do once again cloud run service account even editor role is good enough.
Let me just save once again.
But we haven't changed anything inside the policy.
Now what it says that, uh, this permission simply doesn't exist.
Let me just refresh the whole page.
I just want to make sure that correct permission or a role has been assigned to our service account.
So while I was doing some experiment, I have already assigned this particular role.
Now this is creating some issue.
And here also on our service account through which we are creating this resource, we have assigned
the role like a cloud run admin.
So that also should not create any issue.
Let me just go back and let's just read about like a Google API error.
Uh, permission IAM service account denied on this one or it may not exist.
Okay, so what I can, uh, try for, let me just go to documentation of.
And here do we have a, uh, option to provide any service account, something like that.
So instead of using default service account service account.
Yes.
And see this is the service account.
And this particular one the service account.
That is optional.
If you don't provide uh they will consider it like a default one.
So what I can do I can just search for service account field.
Okay.
That is the only one.
We don't have any example which is given by this service account.
And that is a part of template.
So I can try for let's say instead of using the default one, let's just try for using the new one.
So that is a part of template.
So I guess uh here I can provide like uh oops.
Not at this level.
Might be.
Yeah.
Service account I can provide this, uh, TF service account directly here so I can get it from keys
dot JSON.
And we are expecting some different error that now you are expecting cloud run service agent role on
this particular.
Okay.
Let me just go ahead and do plan once again.
Yes, that is a good enough my new service account.
And let me just go ahead and do apply.
Because now the resource also we are creating see on this one.
Okay, so on the new one, now what we'll do, we'll just uh, provide the role.
Okay.
That is the cloud run service agent.
And then we'll do Terraform apply once again.
Cloud run service agent, so gives the cloud run service account to access.
Manage all resources inside the cloud run service, and I do not know why there are two.
I don't know, that's okay.
Let me just save it.
And once again we'll just go ahead and do apply.
All right, so I just changed the service account.
I don't know why the earlier default service account, uh, was not allowing, even though we have provided
the proper role now because we changed the default service account to our custom new service account.
Uh, who is handling this particular job and assign the proper role?
Uh, we are good to go ahead.
So now we I can just directly go to my console.
Let me just go ahead and check for the new resource being created.
Let me refresh.
Or not here.
Yeah.
See, uh, tf no execution yet for the tf.
I can just go inside.
Okay.
Uh, execute immediately needs to be enabled.
So here.
See?
Execute.
I have to search for the key where if you just allow execution immediately, that means, uh, it will
execute as soon as your job will be created.
Okay, we can search it later on.
Now, let me just do execute manually.
And one job being started and exactly similar results we will get once the job, uh, execution will
be finished.
Meanwhile, like in uh search for some other stuff like, uh, see name template.
Uh, the template contains a lot of things I guess.
Labels, annotation, parallelism, task count, containers, volume timeout, service, account execution
environment, VPC metrics, some container related stuff.
Environment.
Port working directory.
So based on your requirement, if you are not, I mean happy with your default values, you can always
refer to this particular documentation and provide all those detail as per the hierarchy.
Okay.
See I'm just looking for those particular option.
In addition.
Client.
Client version.
Might be.
Terraform has not introduced those stuff yet.
See, it is a at all argument reference we have gone through, but we haven't got anything.
Okay, so I can leave it to you as a exercise that you just search for this particular option.
See, that has also been executed successfully.
Fine.
So everything is running good actually.
But when you try to oops, not a services I am interested in uh, as a job.
See at the last there is a option like a execute job.
Immediately I can search for option term like immediately.
Let me.
No, we don't have equivalent like this.
We have to search for the complete documentation.
But so far everything runs fine.
You can always refer to this particular documentation for other arguments and some of the attributes
also.
Okay, so that is all about this video.
And I'm just going to end this video.
So that's all about this video okay.
Before that let uh it's always good practice to destroy all those resource.
Yes.
Okay.
Uh, whatever other job we have created directly from the.
Cloud console those stuff.
Also, we are just simply going to delete it.
We don't require.
All right everyone, that is all about this video.
And for other argument's sake, you can always refer to the documentation of this Terraform GCP.

--- Thank you notes - way forward ---

All right, everyone.
So many, many congratulations.
You have made it.
You completed my course on TerraForm plus GCP.
And once again, I want to thank you for enrolling in this course.
So before we wrap up this particular course, let me share you some of the things and where you can
go from here.
So related to TerraForm, TerraForm has been developed by this Hashicorp organization and they have
one official certification also related to TerraForm.
So if you want to get certified in a TerraForm, you can always reach to this particular website and
go for Hashicorp Certified TerraForm Associate certification.
Apart from that, in this particular course, there are many services we have already covered.
Like mostly the services are related to compute your serverless stuff, your storage and database.
But Google offers more than 200 plus services inside their Google Cloud platform, and there are many
more services which needs to be learned.
So.
So whatever services we have learned, I am confident that you can now understand by just looking at
the documentation, you can create an infrastructure for it.
Like for artifact registry, we didn't do it, so you can just simply go to artifact registry, follow
the documentation.
And there are some nice examples also being given.
So at least you can start with bare minimum required parameters and you can keep on adding new parameters
plus keep on modifying the values for different parameters so you can have a look at.
There are huge number of different services which is not being covered and that is not the objective
here.
The objective is to cover.
TerraForm Basics, which we try to learn in an earlier section.
TerraForm installation and how to connect this terraform with the GCP environment so that for individual
service, depending on your requirement, you can always go ahead.
So you can take it forward.
Your journey in a TerraForm and a Google Cloud space.
Now, one more thing that before we wrap up, we will again ask you about.
Reviews and rating.
So reviews and ratings are very much important for me as instructor, as a student to you also, so
other students can benefit.
So I would highly suggest you please spend some time.
Provide your honest feedback and write some text what you like about the course and you can send me
private message.
Also, if anything, I can improve about the course.
Any new topics, I can add it to this particular course and after you complete your full course, you
will get a certificate of completion and which certificate you can definitely share on different social
media network.
So other student also can get idea about what course you have completed and what course they need to
follow next in their software engineering.
Cloud Engineer, DevOps Engineer Journey.
Okay, so that's all about this particular course and I promise you to keep bringing such a nice content
related to Google Cloud platform, infrastructure, DevOps, Kubernetes and many more stuff.
Okay, so that is all about this one.
And once again, thank you very much for enrolling in this course.

--- Bonus Lecture ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]
