

=== Introduction ===


--- Course Introduction ---

Hi, I am Kalyan Reddy Dida and I will be your instructor in this course.
Docker Masterclass 40 practical Demos.
So here we are going to implement 40 practical demos to understand multiple Docker concepts and more
or less for each and every Docker concept, we are going to have a practical demo.
And initially we will start with learning about why we need to use Docker and what is the Docker terminology.
So what is Docker daemon client image container and then Docker hub.
So this is a theory part in this entire course.
So it is going to be last for 15 minutes.
Once that is completed we will go into the practical demo section.
So we will start with Docker basics like installing the Docker desktop and registering to Docker Hub.
And after that we will implement the demo like how to pull a Docker image from Docker Hub and run the
Docker container using that Docker Hub, and after that we will also go ahead and then build a Docker
image and push that Docker image to the Docker Hub.
Here we complete the Docker Basics section.
After that, we will move on to implementing our learning each and every Docker file instruction with
a practical demo.
So we will start with implementing Docker file labels.
After that we will go ahead and learn about Docker file add versus copy and how at what situations we
need to use docker file instruction add, and at what situations we need to use copy.
And in addition to that, with add instruction we can get the content from URL means like.
You can fetch the data from a URL and copy it in your Docker image.
So that part also you are going to demonstrate with a GitHub package means like a package is present
in GitHub, and that one you are going to fetch using this URL and then demonstrate.
So that is about docker file add fetch from URL demo.
From there we'll move on and learn about Dockerfile.
Instructions like arguments, run expose environment variables, and also workdir.
So once those are completed, we'll go ahead and then learn about Dockerfile, cmd and entrypoint instructions,
each with a separate demo.
And then we will also learn to implement health check instruction in our Docker file.
And we will also learn to implement Dockerfile user instruction to run our Docker container with a Non-root
user.
From there, we'll move on and also learn about Docker ports, how to use ports, and then how to allocate
dynamic ports on our host machine.
So different flags available.
And for all all those things we are going to explore in detail.
So once we complete the Docker ports section we will move on to learning about Docker storage.
So in Docker storage we will start with learning Docker volumes, and in Docker volumes we will start
with learning volume basics.
And after that we will learn about how to mount a Docker volume to a container.
And after that we will also learn about how to populate data in volumes using containers.
And in addition to that, how to mount a volume subdirectory in a container.
We are going to learn all those things from volume perspective.
And after that we will also learn about Docker bind mount basics, and also learn about how to mount
bind mounts.
Using read only means like mount it in a read only option.
How we are going to do that?
Also, we are going to learn and after that we will also learn about Docker volume versus bind mounts.
When we have an existing content non-empty dir present in our container, and we are going to mount
the volume or bind mount at the same location.
How it is going to behave with volume and how it is going to behave with bind mount, we are going to
explicitly see that as part of this demo 21.
And after that, we are also going to learn about Tmpfs mount, which is a temporary file system mount,
so that also we are going to learn once storage is completed, we will move on to creating a deploying
a Multi-container application in our Docker desktop.
So wherein we are going to deploy a UMS web application where it is going to have a web application
and underlying MySQL database.
So this Multi-container application we are going to deploy using Docker commands first.
And after that we will start learning about Docker compose declarative way of defining Docker configurations.
So here we will start with implementing Docker volumes and environmental variables as part of this demo
24.
Here we will implement the creation of MySQL db using Docker compose files, and after that we will
also learn about add creating a named volumes with metadata.
As part of this demo 25 and from there we will move on and deploy our Multi-container app using Docker
Compose.
So here as part of demo 23, we implemented or deployed the Multi-container app using multiple Docker
commands.
Means like create a Docker network and then deploy the UM's web application, deploy the MySQL database.
All these things are separate commands when you do it via Docker commands.
But all those things you can define in a single docker compose file and with a single command you can
bring them up.
So that's what we are going to do as part of demo 26.
Once that is done, we will also learn about Docker compose deploy option, how to how to scale our
containers.
So from one container to multiple containers of the same type we can use this deploy option and scale
the replicas that we are going to do.
And in addition to that, we are also going to design a three tier application in the web tier.
We are going to have nginx in app tier.
We are going to have Ms. Web application, which is a Java application, and also in DB tier we are
going to have MySQL DB.
So and here we are going to apply this deploy for our app tier containers which are Ms. Web application.
And from there we will move on to implement networking for our Multi-container application which we
have deployed.
So we will have a front end and back end networks defined in our Docker compose file.
And in the front end we are going to attach the services like nginx, web, nginx and also app Ms..
And in the back end we are going to have app Ms. and MySQL db.
So we are going to isolate the front end and back end networks so that from front end, which means
from web tier, you will not be able to access the DB tier directly.
So we are going to make our Docker compose file more secure means like the entire design, we are going
to make it more secure with demo 28.
From there we will move on to implementing Docker compose health checks.
So for this three tier application we are going to implement health checks for MySQL DB and UM's web
application, and also for nginx application write nginx web server.
And then we will also define the startup order for these applications, which means like first MySQL
should be started and then it should be healthy.
Then only your app tier related servers, which is nothing but UM's web application should be started
and once it is healthy, then only a web server should be started to send the traffic to your app tier.
So like that we will define the startup order in Docker compose to start the containers one after the
other based on their tiers.
So once this demo is completed, we will move on to implementing Docker compose profiles.
So how to define debug related services inside your Docker compose and enable those services only when
it is needed.
So if you want to have a troubleshooting related container deployed as part of your application only,
it need to be enabled whenever it is needed so that you can do it using Docker compose profiles.
And then that we are going to learn as part of this demo.
After that, we will also learn about Docker compose links and also network aliases, giving different
multiple names for the same service using links or network aliases.
We are going to explore.
And after that we will also learn about Docker compose build option.
And from there we will move on and implement Docker Compose develop watch option wherein we will implement
Sink Plus Restart and Sink Plus Rebuild.
Once these two demos are completed.
From developer perspective, these two are very very important.
Sink plus restart and Sink plus rebuild.
Rebuilt.
So once these are completed we will move on to docker build section there in the docker build we will
know about build kit and build ecs CLI.
And once we get a clarity on those things, we will create a custom builder here.
Instead of default builders, we will create one custom builder here in build kit.
And then using that custom builder, we are going to create a multi-platform Docker image.
Right?
We are going to generate a or create a multi-platform Docker image with amd64 and Arm64 supported Docker
image, which will be generated using a single command.
And once that is completed, we will go ahead and then also learn about Docker build cloud.
So we are going to use Remote Cloud Builder to build a Docker image.
After that, finally we will go ahead and also implement multi-stage builds in Docker.
So these are the 40 demos we are going to implement as part of this course.
And once these are completed, we will be confident in implementing any type of use case using Docker.
And in addition to that, you can go to this URL where we have the complete code organized in a step
by step manner.
So if we go here so you can see all the Docker related content and their demo files.
Also if you open any of these things right.
So it's equivalent to demo files and then Docker files.
All the things will be present in these things.
So if you go here to Multi-container applications or volumes you can see here in compose.
And you can find the compose file here.
Or you can open aliases.
You can find the compose file here.
Everything is clearly documented so that it will be easy for executing that respective demo and all
the Docker files for that respective demo.
Everything is documented in the GitHub and it is available for you.
This completes the introduction about this course.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Course GitHub Repository Links ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Demo-01:  Install Docker Desktop, Sign Up to Docker Hub ===


--- Why Docker? ---

Welcome back.
Let's understand why we need to use Docker in this lecture.
Right.
So let's understand what problems we have with the traditional infra right.
So in traditional infra we will first provision the hardware infrastructure means like we will go and
then purchase the servers and then place them in our data center.
Right.
And then we install the operating system on those servers.
And after that we will install the libraries and dependencies required for our application on that operating
system.
And after that we will deploy our databases, app servers and web servers.
So we will install them manually on that respective server.
So these are the things we are going to do in our traditional infra.
Right.
So this traditional approach for every server if you want to do these things it is going to be time
consuming and need to perform Install config on every server and every environment like dev, QA, staging
and then production.
And in addition to that, when we talk about compatibility and dependency perspective, we need to keep
resolving issues related to libraries and dependencies on different servers.
Right.
So and also we might have inconsistencies across environment.
And it is very hard to track across dev, QA, staging and prod environments.
And they end up with some inconsistencies.
Right.
So it will be very difficult to manage all these things.
And there is a lot of manpower needed to manage all these physical servers.
And also when we talk about operational support.
So we need more resources to handle operational issues on day to day basis server support with both
hardware and software, which means for the operating system.
Also we need to do patching and all those things.
So it takes time and we need to schedule them.
We need to schedule the downtime for our applications to upgrade the servers.
All those things are going to take time and example if we take the development environments, if a new
developer joins the team, the time it takes to provision his development environment in traditional
approach is also going to take a lot of time.
So let's say after these physical infrastructure, we already got something called virtual infrastructure.
So let's see first what our physical machines.
So you have a hardware infrastructure.
You have operating system.
And you install libraries and dependencies required by your applications.
And you install applications in physical machines.
So after physical machines it it got evolved to virtual machines.
And in virtual machines what happened is on top of hardware infrastructure, a hypervisor is present.
And on top of that we create a virtual machine, and in virtual machine we are going to have the operating
system.
And in operating system we are going to deploy the libraries and then dependencies related to our applications.
And we can clone one virtual machine and recreate multiple virtual machines.
All those things are available, right?
So once we have physical machines are very tough to manage.
And it got simplified with virtual machines.
Now let us see physical machines with Docker how it is going to be there, and also virtual machines
with Docker how it is going to be there.
So on hardware infrastructure, in operating system, we will install the operating system on the server,
and after that we will install the Docker engine.
So on that physical server we will install the Docker engine.
And using that Docker engine.
Right.
This Docker engine will run the Containers so we can create a nginx container, app, service container
or database server containers.
We can create them directly and to to replicate these containers.
It is going to be very quick.
It is like Subseconds.
You can create 100 web server containers within some seconds.
We can create 100 app server containers.
So that's the flexibility of Docker.
So if there is no Docker engine here, and these three applications are installed directly on this operating
system in this physical machine, to replicate this physical machine to 100 machines, it is going to
cost hugely for us.
And in addition to that, there is a lot of manpower needed.
But if you see here, if your hardware infrastructure supports hundreds of things here using Docker,
then it becomes super simple.
And if we see about virtual machines in virtual machines, you will have the hardware infrastructure
and a hypervisor.
And on top of that you will create virtual machines.
And in each virtual machine you are going to have operating system.
And then you will install Docker Engine in those virtual machines.
And then you can deploy your applications as containers in those virtual machines.
So this is about where Docker comes like in physical infrastructure also or in virtual machine infrastructure.
Also you need to install the Docker engine on that respective operating system for the Docker containers
to to to create Docker containers in Docker right now.
Advantages of using Docker.
So let's start why we need to use containers.
So those are flexible.
So any complex application can be containerized.
And it is that advanced nowadays.
And these containers are very very lightweight.
These use very fewer resources than virtual machines.
So virtual machines need lot of packages for the base to work.
But here when we talk about containers, it is like a very minor small operating system.
Present inside.
The slimmer version of operating system is present inside a Docker container wherein only the application
related things, whatever is required to run on that respective operating system inside container will
be present.
Other than that, all on all, all on all not needed packages will be excluded from that.
Okay.
So that is the reason.
It is very lightweight and it is also portable.
So you can build locally, deploy to cloud and run anywhere these containers.
And in addition to that these are very very loosely coupled.
So you can replace or upgrade containers without affecting others.
And in addition to that these are highly scalable if we talk about these containers, you can create
you can create one container and you can create a replica of equivalent container to 100 containers.
Right.
So why?
Because you have the underlying Docker image.
So we'll learn about what is container.
What is Docker image in the next architecture lecture.
But we with single Docker image you can create hundreds of Docker containers which means like a replica
of one container.
You can create hundreds of containers easily with simple commands.
And these are highly secure.
Containers provide isolation without extra setup.
And also this is a minimal OS without any, uh, major amount of packages present inside it.
It will be highly secure.
So that's about Docker on a high level.
In our next lecture we will focus on learning about Docker architecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-02: Docker Commands: pullm run, exec, stop, start, rm, rmi ===


--- Docker Architecture or Terminology ---

Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to know about Docker architecture or Docker terminology.
So let's understand what all things involved in Docker on a high level.
So let's start with Docker host where we install our Docker engine.
Right.
So it might be a virtual machine or a physical machine.
So Docker host can be a virtual machine or a physical machine.
And inside that we will have the Docker daemon.
So this Docker daemon listens for Docker API requests and manages Docker objects such as Docker images,
Docker containers, Docker networks, and Docker volumes.
So that's about Docker daemon.
And we will also have something called Docker client.
And this Docker client can be present on either Docker host or any other machine like your local desktop.
Now this Docker host can be even your local desktop.
Also not only server are not only virtual machine, even our local desktop also can be a Docker host
and Docker client be client can be installed on either Docker host, or.
You can also install the Docker client only on your local machine and using the client only, we will
be connecting to this Docker host and whatever the commands we run using this Docker client.
Those will be uh, executed using Docker daemon.
The Docker client is the primary way that many Docker users interact with Docker, and the Docker client
is nothing but Docker.
So if you go to the terminal and type docker space images, it will list your images.
So the CLI name is Docker.
And when you use commands such as docker run, the client sends these commands to docker d, which is
nothing but your Docker daemon which carries them out, which means docker daemon executes those commands
and the Docker daemon uses the Docker API.
The Docker client can communicate with more than one daemon, so you have installed Docker in multiple
hosts, and you can point Docker client to specific host and then run the command.
So that's the Docker client.
Now let's also talk about Docker images right.
So we have discussed Docker daemon and we have discussed Docker client and also Docker host.
Now we are going to talk about Docker images.
So these Docker image is a read only template with instructions for creating a Docker container.
Right.
So you know when we talk about virtual machines right.
So we will have the virtual machine images.
And we take that virtual machine image and then we create a virtual machine server from it.
In the same way we have a Docker image here.
And using this Docker image we will create a runnable instances which are called Docker containers.
So often an image is based on another image with some additional customization.
So this is one important thing.
So an image is based on another image with some additional customizations.
So for example we want to add custom configurations in our nginx web server.
Then we take the base nginx image and modify as per our need.
Right.
So we will do this practical demo in demo three where we build a Docker image.
Understand this statement here right.
So a image is based on another image.
Or we want to add custom configurations in nginx.
Then we take a base nginx image and modify as per our need what exactly that means.
So let's go to hub.docker.com and verify and search for nginx docker image.
So we take this as the base nginx image and then we modify it as per our needs.
So this is the base nginx image.
And let us go to the demo three and give a quick overview about it.
So let me go to demo three and here we will write a docker file saying from nginx.
So here we are taking the base nginx image.
And on top of that we are customizing based on our needs.
So that is what it means.
So now let's come back here.
And next move on to the next thing here.
Right.
So which is Docker containers a Docker container is a runnable instance of an image.
So once you create your custom Docker image so you can run this image as a container.
So which means the live process or live application will be running inside this container.
So you can access your application by accessing this container endpoint.
So we can create a container or start a container.
Stop a container.
Move or delete a container using Docker API or CLI.
So these are pretty new here the terminology.
But when we go and then implement with multiple practical demos.
This is going to be easy for us, and we can connect a container to one or more networks, attached
storage to the container, and even create new image based on its current state.
All these things we can do from container, right?
And when a container is removed, any changes to its state that are not stored in persistent storage
will disappear, which means by default, container will have only ephemeral storage.
It's a temporary storage.
When the container is stopped, the data is gone until and unless it has a persistent storage associated
with that.
And we are going to also attach persistent storage for this containers in the concept of volumes, bind
mounts and then tmpfs mounts.
And for those things also we have dedicated demos planned.
Here you can see volumes and bind mounts and tmpfs mounts.
So those things we are going to do practically from volumes perspective.
And then now we have learned about Docker.
Docker daemon.
Docker client and Docker images and Docker container.
Finally, we need to learn about Docker Hub here.
Right?
So whatever the Docker images we have right.
Those will be ideally stored in the Docker Hub.
Right.
So this is the registry we call it as the Docker Hub.
You can see huge amount of Docker images present.
And we download the Docker images from this registry and run them as containers.
So for example you created a new Docker image.
You push it and store that respective Docker image in this Docker Hub.
And Docker Hub is a central repository for you.
And when you want to run a container, you pull that Docker image from that registry and run it as a
container.
So once you build your Docker image locally on your local desktop and push it to Docker Hub, it is
in the central repository.
So you can download that from any desktop and run it from any desktop or from any server.
Right.
So for that purpose you store those images in a central repository which is called Docker Hub.
Right.
So using docker pull command or docker run command you can download the Docker images.
Right.
So a Docker registry stores Docker images.
Docker hub is public registry that anyone can use.
And Docker is configured to look for images on Docker Hub by default.
And we can even run our own private registry.
Also, not only the public Docker Hub registry, we can also host our own private registry using Docker.
And when we use the Docker pull or Docker run commands, the required images are pulled from our configured
registry.
When we use the docker push command, our image, our Docker image, which we have built in our local
host, will be configured to push to that respective Docker Hub.
This completes the discussion of learning or understanding about Docker terminology.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-03: Build Docker Image and Push to Docker Hub ===


--- Step-01: Install Docker Desktop and SignUp to Docker Hub ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to install Docker.
So we are going to install the Docker desktop and also sign up to Docker Hub as part of this demo.
So let us go back to our GitHub repository.
And we are in zero one Docker desktop install.
Right.
So we are in Docker in a weekend and zero one Docker desktop install section.
And here we are going to first review the Docker desktop pricing.
Right.
So this Docker desktop for personal use it is going to be free with following features.
So Docker Desktop is free and unlimited.
Public repositories on Docker Hub is free for us.
And 200 image pulls per six hours is also free for us.
And it also provides Docker Engine Plus, Kubernetes Engine and three Scout enabled repos also free
in our personal plan, and local Scout analysis is also free for us.
As part of this personal plan and for this, uh, for this respective course personal plan will be sufficient.
Other than one demo, which is nothing.
But if we go back here, uh, from, uh, demo 29.
Demo 39.
Docker build cloud that we cannot do with the, uh, personal.
For that we need pro, but that you can just watch it.
You really don't need to go and then implement it practically, uh, by purchasing a pro plan.
But you can watch it other than demo 39 remaining all the demos.
You can do it with this personal plan.
Okay, so we need to download the Docker desktop for that and then sign up for Docker Hub.
So now once the pricing is completed we will go for download Docker Desktop.
So here we have the options to download the desktop for a mac, Intel chip, Mac Apple Silicon or windows
Amd64 and windows Arm64, and also for Linux.
So I am using Mac Intel chip.
So I will try to download for my Mac Intel chip.
And once we download that Docker image or that respective Docker desktop related binary, we need to
just go to that folder in the downloads folder and then try to open that dmg file in Mac OS, and then
it just drag and drop this Docker in your applications folder.
And once it is copied, you can open your application and do a prerequisite setup.
So let's wait for it to get copied.
Now let me close this and if you want, you can also move this to bin and go to our applications.
And we have the Docker here.
Right click and open it.
Let's wait for the Docker desktop to get opened.
Docker is an app downloaded from the internet.
Are you sure you want to open it?
Open it is asking for the Docker subscription service agreement.
I will say accept and user recommended settings.
I am fine with it.
I'll click on finish and I'll provide my password here.
And let's wait for it to get installed.
And then Docker Desktop will be opened very soon.
And here it is asking for Welcome to Docker.
And if you have already a Docker Hub ID you can log in with that.
If not, you can click on Skip.
For now I'll say Skip and any survey nothing.
I'll try to skip this also.
And this is the Docker desktop base screen okay, so this is the personal edition.
We didn't log in with any user okay.
So I have a Pro subscription.
When I log in with my ID it becomes pro right.
So you can see here personal.
And you can see let me make it bigger.
You have the container's image volume built Scout and then extensions everything all the features.
And you have the settings related to Docker Desktop here.
So we will go when we go deeper and deeper in demos we will understand more about it.
Now let's go ahead and then sign up for Docker Hub okay.
So we can go to Hub.docker.com here and click on sign up and provide your email username and then password
so you can provide your email ID and your desired username and also set your password.
Or you can continue with Google.
Anything is fine here.
Okay.
So you can sign up.
And once sign up you will be able to log in to your uh.
You can click on sign in after that and then sign in to your Docker Hub account with your username or
uh, email ID and then password.
Okay.
And you will find uh, currently I have a lot of things here.
So all these things are displayed.
But in your case these might be empty.
So this is the stack simplify is my username for my Docker Hub account.
And in the same line if you go back to your Docker desktop here also you will find the sign in section
here okay.
Here in the sign in section you can go ahead and then sign in.
So you can click on this sign in and then sign in to your Docker Hub.
So I have signed in successfully and you can see it here I have signed in and now it changed it to Pro.
Mine is a Pro subscription so that is the reason you are seeing Pro.
But for you it will be a personal only.
So when you go to images also you can see this is local and this is the hub means like from Docker Hub.
All the images will be listed here if you have any images.
Thus this is a very high level about uh, Docker desktop pricing.
Sign up to Docker Hub and downloading and installing the Docker desktop.
Right.
So the same thing okay.
In windows also you can go ahead and then download windows version and it is a exe file.
Just install it.
And then after that when you open it you will get the same Docker desktop screen.
How you are seeing in uh Mac OS.
So this completes the demo about installing Docker Desktop and sign up to Docker Hub.
I will see you in the next demo, and from the next demo onwards we are going to focus on absolute practical
demos.
Uh, on learning about Docker in detail.


=== Demo-04: Dockerfile - LABELS Instruction ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to docker pull, run, exec, stop, start, rm, rmi commands ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to pull the Docker image from Docker Hub and run it.
So let's see what we are going to do in a visual manner.
So we have a Docker Hub or a Docker registry.
And there we have the Docker image my nginx.
And we have v1 v2 and v3 and then v4 version of this nginx image.
And what we are going to do from our local Docker desktop is we are going to pull that Docker image
to our local desktop, and once we pull it, we are going to run that Docker image to create containers.
So the following commands we are going to learn as part of this demo.
So to pull the Docker image we are going to use docker pull command.
And to run the container from the docker image, we are going to use the docker run command.
And to connect to the Docker containers, we are going to use docker exec command.
And to stop or start containers we are going to use docker stop or docker start command.
And in addition to that, to remove a container we are going to use docker rm command.
And finally, to remove the docker image from our local desktop, we are going to run the command docker
rmi.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement it.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-05: Dockerfile - ADD vs COPY Instructions ===


--- Step-02: How to Pull a Docker Image? ---

Welcome back.
Let's go back to our GitHub repository.
And we are in zero to pull from hub and run Docker image.
So which is demo zero two or section zero two.
So here we are going to pull the Docker images from Docker Hub and run Docker containers using those
pulled images.
And also learn about start and stop Docker containers and how to remove Docker containers.
All those things we are going to learn, right?
So now we need to know about the Docker image which we are going to pull it.
So this Docker image is a public image which means we really don't need to login to or it's not a private
image to use any registry credentials for those things.
So let's go to Hub.docker.com.
And there we will search for this Docker image stack.
Simplify slash my nginx.
And when I search for it so and click on enter.
So I can see this is the stack.
Simplify my nginx docker image.
And if I click on it so you can see its information.
So the complete demo, whatever we are discussing now those information also available here.
Now if we click on tags here right.
So it has the v1 and v2 version and v3 version and v4 version of this respective Docker image.
And also this Docker image is compatible on Amd64 and also Arm64 related architecture missions.
So these things how to generate multi-platform Docker images and all those things.
So we have a dedicated demo for those things.
So if you go down here so multi-platform Docker images.
So how to build those things.
Also we are going to learn when we go to advanced sections of this course.
But for now we will focus on this stack.
Simplify slash.
My nginx is a Docker image which is a public Docker image.
We can directly pull that and then use it.
And now what happens is in Docker Hub right.
So you we will have some times image pull limits.
So if we go to we can see the Docker Hub pricing.
And you can see here 200 image pull per six hours in the personal plan.
So even though I am using the Pro plan.
So we have 5000 image pulls per day.
So by any chance we have other Docker images on this respective stack simplify repository and all those
also used in different courses.
So by by any chance if this if we hit this image pulls per day on that specific day, we will not able
to download that Docker image.
So for that purpose what I have done is I have also given the alternative location where the same Docker
image is present, which is github.com/tag simplify and inside packages section.
So if you search for that my ingenix right.
So you will find that my ingenix.
And here you can see you have the v1 v2 v3 and then v4.
So if you want to access from Docker Hub.
It is stack simplify slash my nginx.
And if you want to access that from the GitHub Docker registry, which is nothing but from GitHub packages,
it is going to be gcr.io slash tag simplify slash my nginx.
And here there are no download limits.
So by any chance, if you are not able to pull the Docker image from Docker Hub, then you can always
use this alternative command.
Now let's go ahead and then pull this Docker image right.
So we'll go back to our terminal here.
And I will run the command docker pull and space.
And I will go to this respective Docker image.
And you can see it here the command stack simplify slash v one.
Or you can directly copy the complete command and also provide it.
So I'll try to copy this one.
And v one.
So docker pull stack simplify slash my nginx colon v one and click on allow here and let's wait for
it to download.
And we can see it here it is pulling from Stack Simplify my nginx repository.
So it says that downloaded newer image from stack simplify slash my Ingenix v1.
And now if we click on clear and if I run the command docker images to list the Docker images in our
local desktop so we can see the stack simplify slash my nginx from the repository we have downloaded
with v1 tag, right?
So with v1 tag we have downloaded this docker image.
So the docker image name is stack simplify slash my nginx and whose tag is v1.
And if we go back to our Docker desktop also, and if we click on Docker desktop and in images you can
see the same thing is downloaded.
And if you click on this right.
So if you click on this you can see here we are in the local tab.
And if you click on that you can find all the information about that respective Docker image.
So what?
All things are present inside it and all those things.
Now if we go back and if you see the hub in this hub location, all whatever is present, right?
Because I have logged into my Docker hub here in the Docker desktop, so I can see all my 34 Docker
images here in detail, which is coming from the Docker Hub.
So in the Docker Hub, if I log in here, right.
So I can see all my Docker images.
So let me log in here and I should be able to see all these are my Docker images and all these images.
We can also see in the Docker desktop when we click on this hub item right.
And in local in our local desktop, whatever is there, you need to click on this local tab.
So that's about pulling the Docker image and learning about alternative repository, and also about
how our means like how the pull limits are present in Docker Hub.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-06: Dockerfile - ADD Fetch from URL (GitHub Release) ===


--- Step-03: Learn Docker Commands: run, exec, stop, start, rm, rmi ---

Welcome back.
In the previous lecture we have downloaded the Docker image from Docker Hub, and now we are going to
run the Docker container from that Docker image.
So the command for that is docker run and provide your container name.
It's an optional one.
And after that you provide your ports.
So this is the container port on which our application is running inside the container.
And this is the host port.
Host port is nothing but our local desktop port on which you want to access that container.
And then hyphen D is nothing but in detach mode instead of running it in in terminal in a attached mode,
which means like when we run with hyphen D, what happens is like the process is going to run in the
background and our terminal will be freed up for us to run other commands.
So that's the hyphen D.
And these Whatever you provide, image, name and tag are not the arguments for this hyphen d.
In this command you can use hyphen D anywhere after docker run hyphen d.
Also you can provide.
So now if you see it here after hyphen d we have something called image name you need to provide and
also the tag you need to provide.
So the command here is docker run and provide the name of your container which is my app one and hyphen
p.
And you are mapping your host port on your host which is on your local desktop.
You are mapping 8080 with the container port.
The container is running on port 80 and hyphen D.
We are running it in the detached mode to free up the terminal for running other commands, and also
providing your Docker image name and then tag.
So let's go ahead and then copy this command and run it.
So let's come back here and run the command and this should create a container for us.
So if we see here.
Right.
So you can also run the same thing using our GitHub packages image.
So this is the Gcr.io slash tag.
Simplify slash my nginx colon v1.
So without running the docker pull command also you can directly run it.
And it is going to download the docker image and then run it.
So to learn about Docker pull.
So first we have used the docker pull command.
That's the important thing to remember here.
So now what happened is we have run the Docker image.
So if how to list the container right.
So if you run the command docker PS so your container will be listed here.
And it is the container my app one currently running.
And if you want to see this in detail.
So you can also go to the Docker desktop and click on containers.
So this is the container name my app one which is running.
And this from this Docker image.
It started this container and it is in the running states.
And these are the ports, right?
So you can access your application using localhost colon 80 or 80in your local desktop.
And if you want to see further about your container.
So you can click on this and you can see the logs of your container.
So your nginx process started.
And if you want to inspect your file right.
So you can also click on this complete here platform information, command information, state information
image information and everything you can see from the inspect command.
If you have used any bind modes those will be listed here.
So when we go to the volumes section we will understand about this bind mode.
So if you go here right.
So we have dedicated demos for learning about volumes and bind modes.
So if we go up here right so here right.
So bind mounts and bind mounts in read only mode Docker volume versus bind mounts.
So we have those things in detail.
So there we are going to learn.
So exact command we said right when we use that exact command.
We will connect to the container.
We will see that a little later in this respective demo itself.
And these are the files inside your container.
So in your container these are the files you can browse using Docker Desktop.
And here are the stats information for this respective container.
In addition to that you can stop this container and start this container and restart this container.
So using Docker desktop also.
But important thing is not the Docker desktop.
We need to learn.
We need to learn the Docker commands.
So those also we are going to learn.
So if you click on exec and if I say hostname if I run the command.
So you can see this is the Docker container ID ending with 04BB.
So if you come back here so you can see this is the container ID is the host name of this respective
container.
Now let's come back here and we have run the command docker PS running containers to list all the containers
including stoppered ones, you need to use hyphen A, so this is very important one.
So not only the started containers are running containers.
If you use hyphen A it will also provide the stoppered containers also.
In addition to that, if you use Q then it will provide only the container ID and if you say a Q then
it will provide stopped and started all containers.
And whose container ID is it is going to provide.
So these are some important commands we should learn.
Now let's go and then connect to that Docker container terminal.
So using the Docker exec and hyphen it and provide the container name and slash bin slash.
So provided if your container has a shell right.
So then it is a Linux terminal.
Then if it is a Linux container then you will be able to connect to that.
So now I will clear this I will first clear this and I will say Docker.
And then I will say PS and this is my container and whose name is my app.
One so I will say docker exec, hyphen it and provide my container name.
And I will say bin slash sh.
And I am able to connect to this container and inside this container so we can go in and then explore
all the things about this container.
So for example, if I run the command PS or I can go to CD, I can say usr share nginx slash HTML and
I can find the index dot HTML file.
So I will say index dot HTML file cat.
And this is the file.
We are seeing it here.
Now if I access it with localhost right.
So localhost 8080.
So we can see our application.
Whatever we have deployed we are able to access it.
So which we have seen here.
Right.
So if we go here to the thing you can access your application using localhost 80.
80.
So that's the thing.
You can even click on the link here to access it.
So this application is accessible.
So this index.html page we are accessing there.
So if we want we can say echo colon and I'll say a b c dot HTML something like this.
And if I try to say here a, b c dot HTML, obviously I'll be able that a b c dot HTML.
I have made some changes inside the container of creating a new file inside, and I am able to access
it just for learning purpose.
I have done it, so I'll come out of this container right?
So I have connected to the terminal of the container and I have also came out of that container.
So if you want you can run hostname command all those things inside the container so you can connect
to the container.
And inside that you can run the commands.
So that is one way.
And the other way is execute commands directly.
So which means docker exec hyphen it.
And provide container name.
And whatever the command you want to run, you can run it.
So now let's run these commands.
Docker exec hyphen I t myapp one and I'll run the command ls command.
And all these are the files or files and folders inside this container in the root directory.
And if you want we can also run the command hostname command inside that container which is my app one.
And it has provided the hostname which is ending with 04B.
So you can see it here 678604BB ending with.
So this is the container ID which is the host name of that container.
So in addition to that you can also run the commands print env df, hyphen h, all those things.
So I can run the command print e and v and all the environmental variables inside that container were
run here.
So hostname and xterm and all the information environmental variables set inside that container is shown
here.
And if you want to see the A volume information and all those things.
Also you can run df hyphen h command inside the container by running this way.
So this is about the docker exec command.
And now if you want to stop and start a container you can use docker stop and docker start commands.
So now let's come back here and clear docker PS.
And you can see my app one is the container currently running.
So I'll run the command docker stop.
And I will say my app one.
And you can see docker PS no running containers.
If I run the command hyphen a, it will provide all containers which are stopped and running.
So you can see my app one exited zero nine seconds ago so we can see it here with exited zero status.
It is in the stopped status.
Now if I run the command docker start and my app one Right?
And if I click on clear and if I say Docker PS and you can see it is now up from four seconds like four
seconds before it was started.
So that's the way you can stop and start the container.
And once we stop and start the container, one more thing we need to learn is how to remove the Docker
container.
So you can stop the container and you can run the command docker rm and provide your container name.
So another important thing to learn here is to stop the container.
You can use even the container ID.
So this is the ID.
Let me copy it and you can stop it.
And to start also you can use container id id not only the container name my app one.
You can also use container IDs also not only names IDs.
Now let me stop it.
And after stopping it, if you want to remove this container so you can provide docker rm and either
you can give container ID or container name.
So I'll give container name.
So for all these commands you can use either container ID or container name.
So now if I run the command docker PS nothing is there.
And if I run the command docker PS a hyphen a nothing is there.
After stopping the container, you have also removed the container.
So for that purpose you are not seeing that respective container.
And if you want to remove the container, uh forcibly means like if it is in the running status and
if you want to remove it, stop and remove the container.
You can use rm hyphen f.
So let us start the container once right.
And uh now it doesn't have a container ID to start it because you have already removed it.
So for that purpose we need to run the docker run command.
So let me come back here.
And using this command we are going to run the container.
And what we are going to do is with a single command we are going to remove it.
So where is it?
Let's go back here and remove the Docker container with hyphen f.
So I will say docker PS and docker rm hyphen f.
And you can provide your container name or container id.
So if I run my app one is removed.
If I run the PS not there and PS hyphen a not there.
So using rm hyphen F you can stop and remove the container with a single command.
So that is about Docker containers.
We also need to remove a docker image.
So how to remove the docker image.
So I will say Docker images will list the docker images present in your local desktop.
So docker rmi is the command to remove it RMI and provide or provide your Docker image colon tag.
So if you say v one right.
So now it will be removed.
So before removing it let's go to our Docker desktop here.
Right where is it.
So it is present here.
And if I click on images, you can see it is present now.
So you can select here and even delete it.
Or we can do it from command line.
So important thing is we need to do always using command lines.
We need to know all the commands how to use it on our local desktop.
Now let me run this command and it says it is deleted.
So if I run the command docker images nothing is present.
And if we go to the Docker desktop also it is not present.
So this completes the demo about learning different commands in Docker which are nothing but.
So we learned about pull command and we learned about run command.
And we learned about Docker PS command and exec command.
And also we learned about stop and start command.
And also removing Docker containers and also rm rf which is stop and remove the container in one command.
And also learned about removing Docker images using Docker RMI.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-07: Dockerfile - ARG Instruction ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfiles and Instructions ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about building a Docker image and push that Docker image to Docker
Hub.
In addition to that, we are also going to learn about what are Docker files.
So let's understand what are these Docker files in Docker.
Now these Docker files are simple text files that contain a set of instructions to build a Docker image.
So in this demo build a Docker image and push to Docker Hub.
We will have a folder called Docker Files.
And inside that you will create a docker file with name as capital d o c k e r f I l e.
So this should be your docker file name, and inside the docker file you will define your instructions.
So this Docker file automates the process of creating Docker images by specifying steps which are called
instructions.
So whatever you see here from copy, these are called instructions in the Docker file.
So why do you use this Docker files.
So like in your Docker image if you want to install the software, copy some files or set environmental
variables or run some commands and also run your application.
So for all those things, you need to define how you want to do it using Docker file only.
So we can say docker file is the heart for Docker.
So now let us go ahead and then understand what we are going to do as part of this demo.
So before that we also need to understand something here we are going to have dedicated ten demos for
learning Docker file in detail.
So in this demo we are going to learn a very basic one which is build Docker image and push to Docker
Hub.
That is all but from demo four onwards till 13 we are going to learn about what are labels in docker
file.
What is an add instruction?
What is an add fetch from URL instruction?
What is an argument instruction or run or expose our env command Workdir Entrypoint health check user.
So there are multiple instructions available.
And for all those things we have a dedicated demos so that we understand or we will be able to confidently
write the Docker files once we complete these ten demos.
So in this demo what we are doing.
So let's understand in a high level.
So in this Docker file we have something called we said instruction as from nginx.
So what we are doing here is we are saying that from nginx means like nginx as the base image we are
taking.
And on top of that we are adding our related code there.
So we will say from nginx as the base image.
And we will take that base image and we will copy our custom index.html to this location for the new
Docker image, which we are building.
So we will say copy this index dot HTML, whatever is present there to usr share nginx HTML.
So very simple docker file which we are going to implement.
So if we go here to our if we go back here and go to Hub.docker.com.
And if you go to, if you go and then type nginx here.
Right.
And we will find the nginx docker image.
And this is going to be the base Docker image we are going to use.
And on top of that we are going to build our own custom Docker image.
So let me come back here.
And that's about we are going to do in this demo.
So let us see that in a visual manner.
So we are going to build a Docker image and push to Docker Hub.
So to build a Docker image we are going to use docker build command.
And this is the Docker image name we are going to provide, which is my ingenix something like custom.
And this is the tag colon v one.
So this is the Docker image name.
And if you see the dot here.
So we will go to that Docker file location where it is present which means inside the Docker files folder.
And from there we will run this command docker build t and my nginx hyphen custom colon v one is the
image name we are going to build, and dot means from the current directory where is your docker file
present.
It is present in the current directory and we will build this docker image.
So once the Docker image is built, we will run that Docker image by creating a container and test it.
Whether our sample index dot HTML is accessible.
And once that is done, we will tag the Docker image with our Docker id, so my Docker Hub id is stack
simplify.
In your case, your Docker Hub ID might be different and accordingly you need to use that.
So if you see here I am logging in with my docker id.
So this is my docker id.
And using that I am logging in.
In your case it will be different.
So using that docker id you are going to tag the docker image.
And once that is done so using docker push.
So with the docker tag you have tagged the docker image.
And after that with docker push you are going to push the Docker image to Docker Hub.
And once that is done, we will go to Docker Hub and verify whether our Docker image is successfully
pushed to Docker Hub or not.
So once that is done, we will also learn about a simple Docker search command also.
So these are the things we are going to do as part of this demo.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-08: Dockerfile - RUN and EXPOSE Instructions ===


--- Step-02: Create Docker Hub ID, login from terminal and docker desktop ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Demo-09: Dockerfile - ENV, ARG, CMD, WORKDIR Instructions ===


--- Step-03: Run nginx base image as container and verify index.html ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Demo-10: Dockerfile - CMD Instruction - Override with docker run ===


--- Step-04:  Build Docker Image and Verify by running it as container ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Demo-11: Dockerfile - ENTRYPOINT Instruction ===


--- Step-05: Tag and Push the Docker Image and Verify in Docker Hub ---

Welcome back.
We have seen that when we have run the base Docker image, right.
So we have seen that it has provided the default index.html.
And we have custom built a new Docker image.
And then when we have run it we have got our custom index.html.
Now this custom image I want to store in my Docker repository, which is nothing but Docker registry,
which is hub.docker.com.
Right?
So to do that, I need to tag and push the Docker image to Docker Hub.
So tagging in the sense you need to tag it with your Docker id so your docker username, whatever is
there.
Using that you need to tag the command here is docker tag.
And then you need to provide your Docker image whatever you have built just now, which is my nginx
custom colon v1.
And then you provide your Docker username slash and whatever the name you want.
Here I am providing the same name my nginx custom v1.
So here in my case it is going to be docker tag and my nginx custom v1 and my docker username is stack
simplify.
So I'm going to use the same.
So let's go back here.
Clear I'll say Docker images.
Images I'll say docker tag and I'll copy this.
My nginx custom and colon v1.
I'm going to tag it with my docker ID stack.
Simplify.
In your case whatever is your docker ID username for your Docker hub you need to use that.
And again I'll provide the same name my nginx custom colon v1 and I will tag it.
So now if I run the command docker images the tagged image.
Also I can see it here.
Now the next thing is push that image to push it.
Docker push and provide the complete name stack.
Simplify.
Slash my nginx custom.
In your case you are a your Docker user ID slash my nginx custom colon tag, and this should be pushed
to your Docker Hub repository.
So let it push and once it is pushed, we will go back here to our Docker Hub.
Let me close these things and I will go to the Docker Hub.
And you can see my nginx custom is pushed here.
So if I open it just a minute ago it was pushed.
And you can see its tag v1 is present here in the tags.
Also you can see the information.
So we have successfully created a Docker image and then verified it by running it.
And after that we have also successfully pushed it to the Docker Hub.
Right.
So and we have verified the same thing on the Docker Hub.
And if you want to see this Docker Hub so you can see this is the general information of our Docker
image.
And you can add additional information also.
So if you go here and try and search for my nginx right.
Um, if you go here and go to Stack Simplify and let me search for my nginx.
Right.
And this is the my nginx image.
And if you see it here, it has v1 v2 v3 v4 tags, which means four versions of my Docker image is present.
And you can also provide your steps.
Also here you need to manually enter them, edit and then enter that information also so that if anyone
wants to use the Docker image, you can provide the steps here.
And based on those steps they can execute it.
So like that you can provide.
And in the tags section you can see all the tags information v1, v2, v3 and v4 and and means like
whatever the tag name you gave give.
Okay so mine I have given it as v1, v2 v3.
You can give 1.0.02.0.03.0.0.
Whatever uh is as per your organization standards.
In my case here, I have also built the Docker images for both Amd64 64 and ARM 64 related things.
So here in this demo, you have just learned the very basic Docker build command.
But when we go to the advanced sections of this course, you will learn about building multi-platform
images.
So there you can build images which supports multiple architectures amd64, ARM 64 something like this.
So when you access this v4 related tag or v1 related tag like this.
My nginx colon v1 from amd64.
It will download the docker image built with amd64 architecture.
And if you are down, if you are running it from Mac OS, Apple Silicon related the Apple Silicon related
chipset, then it will download Linux ARM 64 related Docker images.
Right?
So how to create multi-platform related Docker images?
Also, we will learn as part of demo 38.
So that's about it on a very high level.
This is about the Docker Hub.
And you you will have organizations.
You say these are all advanced concepts.
So when we are using it in a organization with a paid account, then we will get all those things.
But key important thing here is when we search here.
Right.
So you can search all the public images here and browse through those things in detail.
So this is a ingenix.
Let me open them.
This is the nginx base image.
And so far it has 1 billion plus downloads and ten K plus stars for it.
And here all these are the tags available for this nginx.
So if you use from nginx as the base image, whatever is the default one, it is going to provide.
But you can use different operating systems.
Also if you want to use Bookworm or Alpine or Alpine Slim smaller image if you want you can use Alpine
Slim so like that accordingly.
Based on your need, you can use that respective tag and then use it.
Example.
In your organization you are using alpine.
Then you can use alpine And in your organization you are using bookworm.
So you can use bookworm.
So like this.
There will be multiple things available based on our needs.
We can use it and see the supported architecture.
So whatever we are seeing these Docker images are multi-platform built.
So amd64 arm 30 2V5 ARM 30 2V6.
So like this.
It is built for uh execution on multiple platforms.
So if we click on the tags also we can see the same thing.
See it is built for the following architectures.
Linux 386, Linux amd64, Linux Armv5 v7 and ARM 64 V8.
So all these architectures are supported, which is.
The base nginx image is supported in all these architectures.
Means like you can run this nginx image on all these type of platforms.
So now if you want to search these Docker images, right.
Uh, in the Docker hub, using uh means like here you can browse it directly and verify if you want.
You can also use Docker search command to search them.
So if I run the command docker search and nginx and it is going to provide all the nginx images available,
right.
And if you want with uh limit five results only so you can say hyphen hyphen limit and five.
So it provides nginx nginx ingress nginx prometheus exporter different different things which starts
with nginx.
All those things with a limit of five it has provided.
And if you want to list them with stars minimum 50 stars are there.
At least 50 stars then provide.
So you can run this and it will provide the uh, nginx image which is having minimum 50 stars.
It might take a little bit of time to display, but it will display.
And if you want you can also display official images.
Only filter is official equal to true and nginx.
This will provide us the official image.
It took little bit of time, but it displayed so you can see it here.
Nginx Official build of nginx is giving, which is having 20,331 stars and you have something like this
one nginx, nginx, ingress 96 and Bitnami.
Nginx is having 193 stars and ubuntu nginx is having 120 stars.
So this is the one which is having the highest stars, which is also a official image.
Even we can run the command to see only display official image filter E is official equal to true.
Using this you can search it and this is the one nginx, which is the official image which has 20,331
stars as on today.
And in addition to that, instead of docker search command, you can also use these filters to display
whatever you need it.
Okay, so which architectures are supported and what is that needed.
All those things.
You can search it from here.
So this completes the demo about building a Docker image and pushing that to the Docker Hub.
I will see you in the next lecture or next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-12: Dockerfile - HEALTHCHECK Instruction ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile LABELS ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker file label instruction.
So what is a label instruction in Docker file.
So this label instruction adds the metadata to our Docker image.
So an image can have more than one label.
So labels included in the base image are inherited by our image.
So earlier in the previous demo also we have created a custom Docker image.
So wherein we have used the base Docker image as nginx where we have specified from nginx and built
our custom Docker image.
So whatever is present in the base image will be also inherited in our custom Docker image.
And if a label already exists but with a different value, the most recently applied value when building
the Docker image.
So those will be Override it with the newly set value.
So in zero four docker file label section in Docker files folder, you will find the docker file and
index dot HTML.
And inside this you can see the labels information.
So from nginx.
And we are trying to use the simple slim nginx docker image.
So we said nginx colon alpine slim.
Alpine slim is the tag which will be a very small Docker image.
So the base image we are using is a very small one.
And these are the labels we are going to add.
So all the types whatever is available I tried to add it here okay.
So because this is a labels demo I tried to add maximum whatever is available.
So you can define your custom label using this information label and maintainer name and label version,
all these things.
So let us go back here and verify the same thing.
So we'll go here to labels zero for Docker files and Docker file.
And you can see it here.
So this is the nginx alpine slim as the base Docker image.
And in the custom labels we can define maintainer version and then description.
And these are the standard labels which ideally we need to define which is open container initiative
labels.
We call it as OCI labels.
So even this maintainer is deprecated.
But still we many are using it.
But the important thing is it is recommended to use OCI labels open container initiative label.
So here you will define the label as arg dot open containers, dot image dot author.
So you can provide your author name.
You can provide the title, you can provide the description version and any revision number.
If you want, we can provide 1.02.0 and on which date we are creating it.
And what is the image URL, you can provide it and image source where the docker file is present, exactly
where the docker file is present.
You can provide and any documentation you can provide.
And who is the vendor.
You can provide any license information you can provide.
So all these things you can provide inside this OCI label.
So this metadata will be added for our Docker image.
And here you can see again standard copy index.html from here to user share nginx.
HTML.
So this is the labels important thing.
And once we create the Docker image we will verify these labels.
How to verify those things.
So how to verify those things.
We will have something called Docker image inspect command.
So using the inspect we are going to verify these labels.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement this in our next lecture I will see you in the next
lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-13: Dockerfile - USER Instruction ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile LABELS demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in zero four docker file label section demo zero four or section zero four.
So here we are going to create a simple Docker image and verify the Docker image related uh labels using
Docker image inspect command.
And we will also create a container.
And using Docker inspect command we are going to verify that container related information also.
So we have already reviewed the Docker file and also the customized index dot HTML.
So we can go it here.
So in zero four Docker file labels.
So this is the Docker file.
And this is the simple index dot HTML wherein we are saying it here nginx alpine slim Docker image with
custom labels and OCI labels.
We are going to use as part of this demo.
So that is what written in this index dot HTML.
Now what we will do is we'll go to the terminal and we'll go to that respective section which is zero
for Docker file labels and will go to the Docker files folder, where we will find the docker file and
index dot HTML.
So here we are going to run the command docker build t and provide our demo name demo for docker file
labels and tag as v1.
And in the current directory docker file is present.
So I will say dot.
So let me run this command and it is going to create a Docker image.
So before doing that we'll clean up anything that is present.
In the previous demo we didn't clean up whatever the Docker image we have created.
Right.
So this is the my app1 Docker container running.
So I will say docker rm hyphen f my app one.
And if I say docker PS hyphen a, nothing is present in docker images.
Also I have these images.
So I will say docker rmi remove the image.
So first I will try to remove this image right which is a tagged image v1 and then after that I'll say
docker docker rmi dollar.
Docker images hyphen q.
This should remove all the images.
Now if I run the command docker images, nothing is present.
So now we will start freshly for this respective demo right.
So we'll go here and run this command to build a Docker image which is demo for Docker file labels.
Now you can see it is trying to build the Docker image.
So if I run the command docker images section so you can see demo for docker file labels, image is
created and whose size is 19.2 MB only.
So earlier once you have seen 193 MB something like that.
So if you go on top here so you can see uh, nginx image is 279 MB.
Now you can see the image size is 19.2 MB.
me.
Why?
Because you are trying to use here.
Simple.
Alpine.
Slim image.
So the size of the Docker image matters.
And for that purpose we have used a slim and small image.
So based on our need we need to choose those things.
Here it is a simple demo and lot of tools inside my docker image is not needed, so I am just using
the slim image here.
Now the next thing here is I have built the docker image and I will also run the docker image.
So using docker run command and provide the name of the container as my labels demo.
And I'll provide hyphen p and 8080 as my localhost port and 80 as the container port.
I am going to run in the detached mode and this is the docker file.
Whatever I have docker image I have created just now.
So from that I am going to create a container.
So let me run it.
And if I run the command docker PS write my labels demo related container is running, and if we go
here and run the command localhost and 8080 as the port I have given, and we can see.
Welcome to stack simplified docker file nginx alpine slim docker image with custom labels and OCI labels
is the thing which we have implemented just now.
Now let us go ahead and then verify the labels.
And to verify the labels you can just say docker image inspect and provide your Docker image name.
Okay so let me come back here.
Docker images I will say and I will say Docker.
And then run the command image.
And I will say inspect right inspect.
And I will provide this label thing and v1 and this is the complete information of my Docker image.
So you can see its architecture amd64, OS, Linux, sys and all the information about it.
Now if you go up here you can see labels.
Section description.
Maintainer.
Image authors.
Image created.
Date.
Image description.
Image documentation.
Image.
All the labels you can see in the labels section.
So that's the key thing.
And if you want to only see the labels right.
Only see the labels.
So you can run the command docker image inspect and using the format option JSON dot config dot labels.
So when you run this right so it is going to only display labels.
So this is a big JSON file.
It will display when you run it.
Only the thing only if you want only labels to be printed you can run this way.
And these are the labels present.
And this data is not in a fine printed way.
So using the JQ tool.
Right.
So pipe it to jq and it will be We finally printed and seen for you.
So like this JSON will be displayed in a detailed manner.
So for that purpose you need to install the JQ if you want.
I have provided the steps for installing the jq install jq package in step three.
So it is on Mac OS.
These are the steps.
If it is Debian these, Linux these and if it is windows these I have given for a reference purpose.
But all these things are not needed.
Our core important thing here is just to verify whether labels, whatever we have applied when we are
building the Docker image, whatever is present in docker file are applied or not to verify.
After building the image we can see using Docker image inspect command.
So that is the key thing.
And if you want you can verify when the Docker image is created and all those information also using
format dot created option.
Using that you can get that information.
All those informations you can get.
So that is about Docker image inspect.
How about the Docker container inspect.
Right.
So for Docker container you need to just say docker inspect and provide your container name.
So if we go here and I can say docker PS and you can see my labels demo is running here.
So I'll say docker inspect and I'll say my labels demo.
And this is the complete information about the container.
So it will have the DNS names and IP address of my respective container and which gateway it is using,
and all the Mac address and all the information.
Okay about it.
You can go here and review all the information about the container.
And for this container also you will find the labels because it is run from the same image whatever
we have built.
Right.
So here you can see all the labels, whatever we have applied in our Docker file for this respective
container also.
And there is a lot of information about this respective container.
So all the information will be present inside this JSON file.
It will print in the JSON format when you run the command inspect.
And if you want specific things from these things for example like if you want IP address of the container.
So you can say hyphen hyphen format and dot network settings dot IP address.
So if you run this command right.
So using format option you get the IP address of your container.
And if you want to get the status of your container you can say dot state dot status.
And you can get the status of your container which is running.
So these are some information okay.
So optional thing nothing more.
But just for learning purpose only.
So Docker inspect if you want to get the exposed ports of your container JSON dot config dot exposed
ports, you can get the exposed ports.
We are using container port as 80 and that is what is present here.
And if you want to get the network settings information so you can run this command to get those network
settings.
Also complete network settings of your respective container will be displayed here in detail.
So that's about Docker container inspect command.
So what is the major difference between Docker image inspect and Docker container.
Inspect is for image inspect you say docker image inspect and for docker container inspect you just
say docker inspect and provide your container name or container ID.
So that's the key difference.
Now we have successfully learned about uh create a defining OCI labels and custom labels in our Docker
file, and creating a Docker image and verifying the image labels for our Docker image and also for
our container.
Now we are going to remove whatever we have created as part of this demo.
Stop the container and also remove the Docker image.
So I'm trying to put everything clean so that it will be the entire environment.
The local desktop will be ready for our next demo.
So I will say Docker PS and you can see my labels demo is running.
So to remove to stop and remove rm hyphen F and provide the name of our docker container and it should
remove.
Now if I say docker PS hyphen, hey all containers if it is stopped and running, nothing is present.
When I run the command docker images I can see this is running, so I'll copy this right docker rmi
remove image and colon v one is the tag and this should remove my docker image.
So if I say docker images everything is clean.
So this completes the demo about docker file labels.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-14: Docker Ports:  -p and -P flags ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile ADD vs COPY ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker file add and copy instructions and also add versus copy
how it is going to look like.
So let's go ahead and understand what is a copy instruction.
In our previous demos we already used the copy instruction.
But here we are going to learn it on a very detailed way.
So what is copy instruction in docker file.
Copy instruction copies new files or directories from source and adds them to the file system of the
image at the path, which is called destination right now.
One important thing to know about copy instruction is files, and directories can be copied from the
build context, build stage, named context, and also from an image.
So all these things are possible if we are using the copy instruction.
So then what is then add instruction right.
So that also we need to know.
So for Add instruction also the definition is going to be same.
The add instruction copies new files or directories from source and adds them to the file system of
the image at the path destination.
So it's the same thing for both.
But important things are files and directories can be copied from the build context.
So from build context, which is same for both copy and add instructions.
But in add instruction you have some important things, which is you can add the files from a remote
URL.
And also you can add files from a git repository.
So that's the key difference for copy and add.
And in 99.99% of the cases we use copy only.
In rare cases only we use add.
So that's another important thing to remember.
So if you see here this is zero five Docker file add versus copy.
And here you see in the copy instruction in the Docker files folder you have the copy file dot HTML,
which will copy to usr share nginx HTML folder.
So the name is copy hyphen file dot HTML.
So that is copy thing whatever is doing and in the add thing what it is doing is in app files folder
there are multiple files.
And those files we are going to zip it and store it in static files dot tar dot gz in docker files folder.
And now we are going to say add static files.tar.bz two usr share nginx.
HTML.
So what happens is add can also untar the files.
So that's the key advantage of add instruction.
So you have provided a tar file here tar and zip file here.
And when it is creating a Docker image it can enter the files present inside this zip file to this location.
So now if you go back to our Visual Studio Code, here in the app files you have file 152, file 35455
and index dot HTML.
So all these files we will zip it and put it in Docker files folder with the name static files dot tar,
dot xz and that when running this docker build command with this docker file, this add instruction
will enter those files at this location.
So that's additional advantage of using add instruction.
So you can unzip the files during the build time.
So that's the key thing.
Now let's come back and compare both copy versus add.
So from a file transfer perspective copy copies files from build context.
And for add.
Also it is the same thing.
And from tar archive extraction perspective copy command doesn't have that flexibility.
Tar archive extraction is not present in copy command but in add it automatically extracts the dot tar
files.
So that's the advantage of using add instruction in the same way URL support is not present for copy
instruction, but for add instruction we have the URL support from the web and performance.
If you compare.
Copy with ad copy is going to be faster and less overhead, and AD is going to be slower if.
Using additional features like tar and tar and then URL get it from the remote URL.
All those things it is going to be slower and from security.
Also copy is safe for local file transfers and when we are using the remote URLs AD will be a security
risk for us.
So that is another important thing.
And from use case perspective, copy is preferred for all local file copies and ad use only for tar
extraction or URL fetching until and unless it is absolutely needed.
If not, try to use copy in maximum cases.
So that's about copy versus ad instructions in a Docker file.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement it I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-15:  Docker Volume - Basics ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile ADD vs COPY Demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in zero five docker file add versus copy related demo.
Now let's go ahead and then review our files here.
So we will go to Visual Studio Code here.
And in zero five right Docker file add versus copy in app files folder you have file one dot HTML file
two dot HTML file three, file four and file five, and also index dot HTML which will reference all
these files here.
So these are simple static HTML files.
And in the Docker files folder you have copy file dot HTML which will use the copy instruction.
So this copy instruction will be used to copy file dot HTML and whatever is present in app files folder.
So we are going to tar them and name it as static files dot tar dot xz and store it in docker files
so that this docker files current directory is docker file.
Here only it is present right in the docker files folder.
This will be present so that this will be copied to this location using means like.
Because we are using AD, it is going to enter all files present inside this to this location.
So now let's come back here and go back and create this file okay.
Create this task.
In your case you really don't need to do this.
I am going to copy and then put this static files that are in Docker files folder.
So you can directly move on to step two.
And then step three which is building the Docker image.
Run it and then verifying it.
So now what we will do is we'll copy this and come back here and go to what is the demo number which
is zero five.
Docker file add versus copy.
And we'll go to App Files folder and inside App Files folder all these files we are going to create
a tar file okay.
So we are saying tar hyphen c z v f.
And we are creating a file name as static files dot tar dot z and we are providing all these files to
that okay.
Which is index.html file 12345.
Dot HTML.
So it is created now.
So you can see static file star dot z is created.
So we can copy this static file star dot to Docker files folder.
And we'll come out of this and we'll go to Docker files.
And you can see you have the static files dot tar dot xz here docker file and copy file dot HTML.
So if you see the docker file.
So this is one thing copy copy file dot HTML.
Wherever the docker file is there copy file dot HTML is there and also static file star dot z also there.
So which means we are ready for docker build command.
So now let's go back here and we will go to our.
We have already reviewed this Docker file.
So you can see I have put only few OCI labels okay.
One is author title description and then version.
I have removed all other things we are using from nginx Alpine slim as the base image.
And these are the OCI labels.
And we are going to copy the copy file dot HTML to usr share nginx HTML folder.
And also we are also going to copy static files dot tar, dot xz whatever is there.
The files inside that using add instruction which will enter those files to this location.
Now let us go ahead and then run the build command.
Docker build t and then demo file docker file add versus copy is the name I am going to give.
And we should be in the docker files directory to run it.
So let me go here and run that command.
So I should be in the docker files directory.
And I should have copy file HTML and static files.
So now if I run the command docker build hyphen demo file docker file add versus copy as the docker
image name colon v1 as the tag and dot as the current build directory where docker file is present and
this should create a Docker image for us.
So let's wait for it.
Now if you see a Docker images, if you see docker image is created, now we can run it right and then
verify whether it has created properly or not to run it.
Docker run and you can provide the name of your container my ad versus copy demo and port localhost
port.
I am using 8080, my local desktop port and 80 as the container port.
I am running it in the detached mode and this is the docker image name and then tag.
I can copy and paste it or if you want we can also write the command more or less.
For all these demos we are going to use build and Run and those are standard commands.
Once we know we can directly copy paste.
Now if we run the command docker PS, we can see my ad versus copy demo is in the running state.
Container is running.
Now if we go back here and say localhost Lost and 80.
80.
I should see this.
Okay, I need to refresh it.
Okay.
So why?
Because earlier thing will be cached in the browser.
So you can see.
Welcome to stack simplify.
Docker copy versus add instruction.
Learn the technology through practical demos.
So here is the link to files.
This is file one dot HTML and back to main page.
This is file two.
And this is file three.
And this is file four.
And this is file five.
All the files whatever we have stored and then pasted here.
Right.
So these are the 12345.
And this is the base index.html which contains all the links okay.
So this is the base page which contains all the links.
So all those things successfully copied to the Docker image.
And those are present in our container.
Now because all these things static files dot tar dot js, we have copied here and used the add instruction.
So for that purpose and when you have used the copy file.
So this is the copy file okay using Docker file copy instruction.
So this one.
So if you go to this copy file dot HTML right.
It is saying that using Docker file copy instruction using Docker file copy instruction.
So if you go back to our Docker file here our copy is successful and AD is successful.
Now let's also connect to the container and verify the same thing.
So I'll go to docker PS docker exec hyphen I t.
And this is the container name.
So this is the container name.
And I will say demo and slash bin slash sh.
And I am inside the container I will go to usr share ingenix.
And inside that if I go to HTML folder.
So you can see copy file dot HTML is copied and file one to file five plus index dot HTML.
All these things were untarred by add instructions or whatever is present inside this tar file were
entered to this location.
Those things we are explicitly seeing it in detail.
So that's the important thing.
So this completes the demo about add versus copy.
Right now let's go back and clean up whatever we have created.
So we'll go here and I'll say docker PS docker rm hyphen f which will remove the container stop and
remove the container.
So let me copy this and paste it.
And I'll also say docker images and docker rmi.
And this is the Docker image name.
Let me copy it and paste a colon v one.
And even the docker image also cleaned up.
So docker images.
And this completes the demo about docker file add versus copy instructions.
So I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-16: Docker Volumes: Use Docker Volumes with Docker Containers ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile ADD Fetch from URL ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about add instruction in Docker file.
And the feature is fetch from URL and URL we are going to use is GitHub release URL.
So let's understand that.
So fetch from URL right.
So this feature allows us to add files from a remote location.
So either it can be any zip file from a URL or like some git release like this okay.
So in zero six docker file add fetch from URL demo.
Right.
You will have a docs folder and you will have index dot HTML, git one and git two dot HTML.
So this is a docs folder.
So this docs folder we are going to copy to a new GitHub repository and create a simple v 1.0.0 git
release.
So that's what we are going to do.
So if you see the docker file here from nginx alpine slim and standard OCI labels, but you can see
the add instruction here https colon slash slash github.com slash.
This is the complete release URL.
So whatever is present inside that GitHub release URL that will be copied to usr share nginx HTML folder.
And in this release URL it is going to have git one dot HTML, git two dot HTML, and index dot HTML
only those are going to be present.
So we are going to test this fetch from URL for add instruction as part of this demo.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-17: Docker Volumes: Populate Data in Docker Volumes using Containers ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile ADD fetch from URL demo ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to test docker file, add instruction fetch from URL feature and how to do
it.
Okay so here first thing is we are going to create a simple GitHub repository which is a public repository,
and upload some files inside that which is present in our docs folder.
And then create a git release for the same thing.
And this step is optional for you.
I am just showing how I am creating a git repository and uploading files and then creating a release.
So this will be already available for you as a public repository.
And if you go to this respective Docker file, it's equivalent.
Uh, add related instruction is completely ready in your docker file.
You just need to build it and then test it.
That's all.
Okay.
But here for additional knowledge purpose I am showing it.
So I'm going to create a repository with this name docker add fetch URL demo.
So we'll go here and create a new repository.
And it is going to be a public repository.
And we are also going to initialize with a Readme which is optional.
So I will say readme and I'll click on create the repository.
And let's go ahead and then upload the files.
So we'll go here and upload files.
And here I'm going to go ahead and then drag the file docs folder inside that which I have git one,
git two and then index dot HTML.
So the complete docs folder is uh uploaded here so that it creates a docs folder inside this GitHub
repository.
And inside that only we will have the files okay.
And I'll click on Commit changes.
And you can see all those files will be uploaded.
And in my Docker add fetch URL demo which is a public repository.
So you have the docs folder, and inside that you have the git one dot HTML and git two dot HTML.
And also you have something called index dot HTML, which will have git one and git two.
Related links.
Okay, now that is about creating a repository and then uploading the files.
Now we'll go ahead and then create a release now.
So we'll go to create a new release and click on choose a tag and I'll say create New tag.
And I'll provide the tag as V 1.0.0 as the tag.
So that will be the tag name.
Okay.
And then release title.
I'll try to provide it as version 1.0.0, and I'll try to click on publishing this release.
Okay, so let's wait for it.
And now the release is created, we can see the v 1.0.0 release related docs folder.
And inside that you have these files.
Now, let's go back to our, uh, GitHub repository and move to the next step.
So this is a prerequisite step which you really don't need to do.
So we already created a repository which is a public repository uploaded the sample files.
And then those things we are going to reference in our add instruction in the Docker file.
So if you go back to the Docker file here.
So this is the Docker file.
So if I access this right.
So I'll try to access this here.
Where is it.
Let me go back here and access the repository and see whether everything is correct here or not.
So let me try to access it.
And this is the repository which is good.
And inside that repository hash v 1.0.0 colon docs is the thing.
So we can, uh, go back here to our thing.
So this is the one which is, which will get the docs folder and whatever the files present in Doc's
folder in v 1.0.0 release will be copied to usr share nginx.
HTML.
So as usual from base nginx alpine slim image.
And these are standard OCI labels which we have used and have a dedicated demo for that.
And this is the add instruction.
And in that we have provided the GitHub release URL and also from where it need to copy.
Okay.
So all those information we have provided, now we will go back here and go ahead and then run the docker
build command.
So from where we need to run from Docker Files folder.
So let's come back to the terminal.
And we are in demo zero six.
And inside that we have the Docker files folder.
And where you can see the Docker file which is using the add instruction with GitHub repository to download
the files.
Okay let me clear this.
And docker build t and the image name.
I'll try to use demo six docker file and fetch from url v1 as the tag, and I'll try to use dot as the
local directory where my docker file present are current build directory, and this should create a
docker image for us.
And once the docker image is created, we need to go ahead and then run the other command.
So now you can see it here ad.
And then it is trying to get the information from this GitHub URL.
And it has placed it in the Docker image.
Now we will go ahead and then run the Docker container from this image.
So docker run and the name of my demo is my ad fetch URL demo port I am going to use from my localhost
is 8080 and 80 is the container port and hyphen d.
If I say hyphen D, which is it is going to run in the detached mode means like terminal will be freed
up for running other commands.
And this is the Docker image name and whatever we have created here.
So this is the same thing.
So let me run this now and see what happens okay.
So this should create a Docker container for us.
My ad fetch URL demo.
And now if you try to access it via browser localhost 8080 and try to refresh it.
And you can see welcome to stack simplified Docker add instruction fetch from URL demo.
And you can see the file one which is nothing.
But this is the git one file.
And this is the.
Let me refresh it okay.
So it comes from the cache usually most of the time.
So this is the file two which is another add instruction fetch from URL demo back to main page and file
one.
And you can see fetch from URL demo back to main page and file two and fetch from URL demo.
You can see it here and back to main page.
So these files accessing is successful.
Which means whatever we have here in the docs folder in GitHub repository is copied to our uh, to our
nginx container.
So you can see which is present, uh, nginx docker image, whatever we have created.
And from there we created a container.
So you can see this is git one dot HTML.
And you can see this is git two dot HTML.
But for safer side we will also do one more check.
So what is that check.
We will connect to this container right.
So we'll copy and I will say docker exec hyphen I t and container name and slash bin slash.
And we'll go to usr share ingenix.
And inside that we'll go to HTML.
And you can see index dot HTML, git one dot HTML and git two dot HTML.
So whatever we have in this docker add fetch URL demo.
So these things successfully copied to our nginx image.
So that's the key thing here.
Now let's go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
So let me exit and I'll say docker PS docker rm hyphen f and remove the container.
Stop and remove the container with a single command and docker images and docker rmi.
And this is the Docker image which we want to remove colon v1 as the tag.
And if I run the command docker images, nothing is present.
So this completes the demo.
About docker file add instruction fetch url demo wherein we have fetched the data from our GitHub release.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-18:  Docker Volumes: Mount a Volume sub-directroy ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile ARG Instruction ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about arg instruction in docker file.
So what is arg instruction.
So it defines a variable that users can pass at build time to the builder.
So when we are using the docker build command so we can use the hyphen hyphen build arg as the flag
and provide the variable name and the value so that this, whatever the value you have defined in the
Docker file, can be overrided using the build time when we are building the Docker image.
So we can define one or more arguments in our docker file.
So you can see it.
Here we have defined the argument nginx version equal to 1.16.
And here for the from instruction we have said nginx colon and then dollar with flower bracket opening
nginx version hyphen alpine hyphen slim.
So what happens is when we run the docker build command generally without this build argument.
So whatever is present here in this argument will be replaced here.
So it is going to use nginx 1.26 as the base image version when building the Docker image.
And if you want to override that at build time, then you can use.
When you are running the docker build command, you can provide hyphen, hyphen, build arg and provide
the variable name which is nginx underscore version equal to a different version, something like one
dot 27.
So even though you have defined in your Dockerfile as one dot 26 during the build time, you can override
it with different version.
It may be one dot 27, so we can define default values for argument instructions using argument instructions
in docker file.
So these become whatever you define in Dockerfile becomes the default values and an argument variable
definition comes into effect from the line on which it is defined.
So you have defined it at this place and automatically it comes into effect from this place in Docker
file.
And another important thing to remember about argument instruction in combination with env instruction
is if you have defined env and argument both with same variable name, right?
And if only always the env variable value, whatever you have defined will override the argument value.
So we have a dedicated demo which is demo zero nine where we are going to learn about arg and env in
combination.
And what is the advantage of using env over arg instruction.
So those things when we go to demo zero nine, which is env demo in combination with arg, there we
are going to learn.
But here we are going to primarily focus on implementing about ARG instruction practically.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this ARG instruction demo.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-19: Docker Bind Mounts: Basics ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile ARG Instruction Demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in zero seven docker file org section or demo.
So here we are going to first review the docker file with arg instruction.
And then go ahead and then build the Docker image and then test it.
So we will first test with building the Docker image with default argument value present in our Docker
file, which is nginx version 1.26.
And then we are also going to go and then build the Docker image by overriding argument value by passing
it as a build arg flag when running the docker build command.
And for both the things we are going to verify using nginx hyphen v command to verify the version which
we have used during the build.
Uh, when it is running, we can directly see it, right?
So when we run a container and when we run the nginx hyphen v command.
So obviously we can see which nginx version is running, uh, as part of that respective container which
we have created from a Docker image.
So now let us go back here and review the docker file.
So let us go to our Visual Studio Code and we are in zero seven docker file argument instruction demo
in Docker files folder you can find the docker file.
And here you can see argument we have defined is nginx version.
And here we are using the base nginx image as nginx colon dollar nginx version.
Hyphen alpine hyphen slim.
So now if you want you can go to this base image and you can verify this type of uh tag is present or
not.
Example like one dot 26 hyphen alpine hyphen slim.
So ideally it is present.
So only we are using it.
But you can verify you can go to Hub.docker.com and verify it.
So if we go here and go to Hub.docker.com and we can go to Ingenix.
And in Ingenix we'll go to that base image and we can verify for 1.161.26 hyphen.
And then we said alpine hyphen slim.
So we can find it here.
So in future when you are implementing this demo 1.28 might be latest and 1.27 might be the previous
version.
So if that is the case, you can use 1.27 as the default version.
And when we are overriding it, you can use 1.28.
So based on when you are implementing it accordingly, you can review those two versions and put it
in your Docker file accordingly.
So these are standard OCI labels.
We are not going to go much inside them.
And now we are going to go here.
We are going to copy the index dot HTML to engineer and verify the same thing.
So you can see here we are saying the demo is docker file org build time variables.
So that is what is the demo we are going to implement now.
So let's come back to our Visual Studio Code here and come to our GitHub repository.
And then here build the Docker image and run them using Docker run command.
So we'll go back to our terminal here and we'll go to demo zero seven our section zero seven which is
a R instruction demo.
And we'll go to Docker Files folder.
And here we will run the command docker build hyphen t and provide the Docker image name.
So I will say demo seven docker file org as the image name.
And then I will provide the tag as directly one dot 26.
And where we are running it, where is my docker file present in the current directory, which is docker
files directory.
So I'll say dot in the current directory.
Now I'll click on enter.
So this should create a Docker image for me which is demo seven.
Docker file arg.
And now once the docker image is built we can run the command docker images to see that.
And you can see docker image is ready for us which created just five seconds before.
Now we need to run the command docker run and provide hyphen, hyphen name and provide a name, which
is my ARG demo one as the container name and hyphen p and I'll say 8080 as the host port, and my container
port is always 80.
As of now, right.
I didn't change anything in my default nginx configuration.
So which is going to be default 80.
And I am going to run it in detached mode.
And my docker image name is demo seven docker file arg colon v 1.16.
So you can see this is the one demo seven docker file.
So let me copy this and colon 1.16.
And let's wait for the container to get created.
So I'll run the command docker PS here.
And my container is running.
So if I access the application here right.
So take a new incognito window.
And if I say localhost 8080 and you can see it here arg build time variables demo is up and running
without any issues.
Now let's go back here and then we'll say docker exec hyphen I t and provide my container name which
is my ARG demo one.
And we can directly run the command inside this container using docker exec command.
We don't need to connect.
And then after going inside the terminal we don't need to run it.
We can also run the command from here.
For example, if I run the command slash route, it is going to execute from that container itself.
Or if I say ls right, so it should work.
See LS is working and in ls if I say ls slash opt from the container.
If opt is present, any data is present inside that those should be displayed.
So our example like usr share uh nginx slash HTML.
See these two are the files present inside that in the container.
In the same way instead of these things our core important thing here right is to execute docker exec
hyphen I t and provide my arg demo one as the container name and nginx version is the key thing we need
to verify.
So you can see nginx version 1.26.2 is currently running as part of this docker image, because in the
docker file you have said that use the 1.6 version.
So minor version you can ignore, but the major version it used is 1.26, so that is what it is using.
So dot 22 from that whatever is the latest available it has took.
So that's about using the argh!
Argh!
Instruction in docker file in the next section means like now we are going to test that build docker
image by overriding arg value whatever we have defined in the docker file.
So for that what we need to do is we need to run the command docker build and build argument hyphen
hyphen, build argument as the flag and provide your variable name.
So whatever you have defined here.
So if you go here nginx version as the variable name and provide the overrided value.
What you want to use.
Example one dot 27.
So let me go here and run this command.
So you can see here we are using Docker build and nginx version 1.17.
So till here it is clear right hyphen t.
And it is going to be the same docker image name with a different tag which is v one dot 27.
Here we have used v one dot 26.
Here we are using v one dot 27.
So in my here I just used directly one dot 26 I think.
So I will try to use here also the same thing.
So let me copy it till here and I will say one dot 27.
And now let us build that image docker build.
And.
Let me try to type the command docker build hyphen hyphen build arg.
And we will also go here and copy the nginx version which is, uh, 1.27 and hyphen t, and we are going
to provide our Docker image name the same thing, and colon one dot 27 as the tag.
And we also need to put a dot.
That is the thing missing in the previous demo.
So from where we are running from our current directory, which is Docker files where the core docker
file is present.
So that is what we have missed it.
So if we don't put the dot it cannot find the docker file where it is present.
And then it failed.
So now I have put the dot here and I have run it and now it is running.
Now if we see Docker images you can see v one dot 27 related docker image also got created.
Now we can run the command docker images once and docker run hyphen hyphen name and provide a different
my arg demo two.
So this is my arc demo two hyphen p, and I will say 8081 as my localhost port to access the application
with container port as 80.
Right.
And then we are going to run it in the detach mode and which Docker image we are going to run.
So this is the one with which is having one dot 27 as the tag.
Right.
So let's run this Docker container.
Now if I run the docker PS so my arc demo two is currently running.
And if we go here and try to access it with 80881, okay.
So with 8081 our application should be accessible.
So we can see arc build time variables.
With 8081 it is accessible and with 8080 also it is accessible.
And now let's go ahead and then run the command docker exec hyphen I it and my Arc demo too.
And here if you run the command nginx hyphen V version.
So it should have the one dot 27 version.
So we have successfully tested the arg for a docker file, arg instruction or default value, whatever
we have provided in docker file.
And also we have overrided with the hyphen, hyphen, build argument flag, and then also tested.
Now let's go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
So we'll go here clear and docker PS we have two containers running.
So I can directly say docker rm hyphen f and provide my arg demo one and my arg demo two, and then
delete it.
Or I can run the command docker PS hyphen a q.
So what happens is PS docker PS hyphen a q will provide the container IDs.
Ideally a queue right.
So it will provide the container IDs will be passed as a values to this docker rm hyphen f.
So we will say docker rm hyphen f and dollar docker PS hyphen a queue and it should remove.
Now if I run docker PS hyphen A, no containers are present.
All the containers are removed in the same way.
If we run the command docker images, there are two docker images running, so I'll say docker rmi and
provide image id or names with tags to remove them.
Or we can say docker images hyphen q will give me the IDs of this Docker images.
So let's try that okay.
Docker image s hyphen q is the docker image id.
So it is providing.
So we'll run this command docker rmi dollar docker images hyphen q.
And this should remove the docker images.
So whatever we have created as part of this demo.
So that's about arc file instruction.
And there are some important things to remember here.
Right.
That is mainly about arc versus envy.
Arc variables are only available during the build time of the image and but env variables are available
during the runtime within the container because you are defining a environmental variable.
So we will see this in our upcoming demo zero nine arc and env combination.
So very key important thing to remember is Arc is available only during the build time when we are creating
the docker image.
But env is available during the runtime from the image.
When you are creating a docker container at that point of time.
Also, whatever you define in your docker file for env variable, those are present.
So that's the key important thing.
So I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-20: Docker Bind Mounts: Mount in Read-Only mode ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile RUN and EXPOSE Instructions ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about, run and expose instructions in a Docker file.
So let's go ahead and then understand what is a run instruction in Docker file.
Run instruction will execute any commands to create a new layer on top of the current image.
So which means you take a base Docker image using from and then on top of that using run, you can install
any packages inside that Docker image.
So it creates a new layer for that.
So if we go back to our Visual Studio Code here and in zero eight Docker file run expose.
And if you go to this Docker file section right.
So here you can see you are saying you are running install curl using run right.
So we are installing the curl package inside this Alpine Slim nginx base image.
So to run that means like to install that we are using the run instruction.
So it executes any commands on top of the current image as a new layer and commits those results.
So that's the run instruction.
So the added layer is used in the next step in the Docker file.
Now one important thing to know about uh, when we are using the run instructions is cache invalidations
for run instructions.
What is the problem here?
Example like you are running something like run apk hyphen hyphen no cache, add curl.
So this is a good command.
We have already used the no cache here, but when you are running commands without that no cache means
like example.
Like when you are running these things like apt, get dist, upgrade and hyphen y.
So you are trying to upgrade your base docker image all the packages, right?
So distribution you are getting upgraded right now.
What happens is the cash, whatever is present in that image layer will not get invalidated during the
next Docker build.
So currently for the first time when you have built the docker build a docker image with v1 version.
So there it will cache all the packages there, and those will not get invalidated when you are running
the next build.
So for that, what you need to do is you can run the docker build with hyphen hyphen, no cache flag.
So when you run with hyphen, hyphen no cache.
So what happens is when you are running this command.
So whatever the cache present inside this image layer will not be taken into consideration.
So those cache will be invalidated and it will freshly run this command in our new Docker image, whatever
we are creating.
So that's one important thing to remember.
Docker build hyphen hyphen no cash.
So that's about cache invalidation for run instructions.
Now let's also talk about what is expose instruction in Docker file.
So this.
Expose instruction informs Docker that the container listens on specified network ports at runtime.
So that's the importance of using expose instruction.
So so far in the previous demos we didn't use any expose instruction because in the base image itself,
whatever the expose instruction is present that is inherited, which is the default port 80 thing is
inherited.
We really don't need to specify it explicitly.
But here in this demo we are going to customize our nginx application.
So how we are customizing it.
So we'll go back here and discuss that in detail in the Docker files section.
Right in zero eight docker file run expose demo.
So if you go to the nginx conf, you have nginx 8081 related nginx.conf and which will serve the index
8081. HTML.
And if you see here nginx 8082. conf which will listen on 8082 and serve the index dot HTML when you
try to access it will serve this page index hyphen 8082. HTML.
And if you go to nginx 8083, it listens on 8083 port and it serves index when you access index dot
HTML using this port, right?
It serves this page index 8083. HTML.
So for 81 8283 you have a customized 81, 82, and 83 related index dot HTML file.
So you can see response from nginx on port 8081 and 8082 and 83, and also default index.html, which
responds on port 80.
So these are the files.
So these are the nginx.conf and these are the HTML files we have.
And let's review the Docker file now.
So we said from nginx alpine slim which is the base Docker image we are using.
And these are standard OCI labels.
We are using it here and here.
The first thing what we are saying is copy nginx hyphen con of whatever is present here in nginx hyphen
conf slash star dot con of all these files come under star dot conf means like 81, 82 and 83.
So all these files we are moving it to our nginx etc. nginx conf dot d directory in our docker image.
And in addition to that we are also copying all HTML files from nginx HTML directory.
So in nginx HTML directory you said star dot HTML.
So all the HTML files you will move to our nginx docker image usr share nginx HTML folder.
And once those two are done, you will also run the command.
Run command.
Run instruction to install the curl package in our nginx docker image, whatever we are going to create.
And in addition to that, because our container is going to listen not only on 80, it is going to listen
on 81, 80, 81, 80, 81, 82 and 8083.
So we are also going to define them.
So define the network ports that the container will listen on at runtime.
So those things you need to define.
So you can define like a single port like this.
And multiple ports with a space 80 443 2022.
How you we how we have defined here 80, 81, 80, 82, 80, 83.
And in addition to that, if you want to define it as a range, expose 7000 to 8000.
So all the ports in between 7000 and 8000 will be exposed here.
All the thousand ports will be exposed here.
So that's about the expose instruction.
So you can specify whether the port listens on TCP or UDP.
And the default is TCP.
If you don't specify a protocol.
So currently we didn't specify any protocol here.
Expose and 8081 8082 8083.
So it is going to use TCP as the default protocol.
So you can see it here.
When you say expose 80 it defaults to TCP exposes on TCP.
But if you want to expose on UDP.
So you need to say 80 slash UDP so that it exposes on UDP.
And if you want to expose on TCP and also follow the format.
So you can say 80 slash TCP so that it exposes on TCP protocol.
So that's about run and expose instructions.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement this and then test it I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-21: Docker Volumes vs Bind Mounts with Non-empty dir usecase ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile RUN and EXPOSE Instructions ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo zero eight, our section zero eight where we are going to implement Docker file run and
expose instructions practically.
So we already reviewed the nginx configuration files and also nginx HTML files as part of our introductory
section for this respective demo.
Now we will go ahead and then build this Docker image and then run it.
So we'll go back to our terminal here.
And we'll come out of this zero seven docker arc.
And we'll go to zero eight Docker file run expose.
And inside that we'll go to Docker files.
And you can see it here you have the ingenix conf and nginx HTML directory in which you have the files
related, which is nginx 8080 uh ls hyphen LRT.
You can see them in detail.
Right.
So these nginx conf files and also nginx HTML files inside those specific Directories.
Now we will say Docker.
And you can also see the Docker file present here.
Now we'll go ahead and run the command docker build t.
And the name of the docker image will try to use demo eight docker file expose run with tag as v one.
And where is my docker file present in the current directory.
So which is dot?
And let's wait for this docker image to get created so you can see it here.
Docker image is created and you can see the thing it is copying the nginx conf files to etc. nginx conf.d
and it also copied nginx HTML star dot HTML to and usr share nginx HTML folder and it also run the command
apk with no cache add curl command.
So it has created a docker image.
Now docker images.
When you run, you can see demo eight docker file expose and run is created.
So that is docker images when you run.
You can see it here.
Now the next thing here is we need to run the docker run command with name as my expose run demo.
So this is first thing.
So first part of the command.
And here you can see our local port which is our localhost port 8080.
Our local desktop port 8080 will be mapped with container 80 port.
And after that 8081 of our localhost will be mapped with container 8081.
In the same way, 8082 our of our local host or desktop to 80, 82 of our container and 8083 of our
local host or desktop to our 8083 of our, uh, container.
So those are the next part in the command.
So let me copy these things.
And after that we will say it is going to run in the detached mode.
And after that what is the Docker image.
So this is the Docker image we have built.
And copy.
And from this Docker image what is the tag which is v1 tag.
And click on enter.
So if I run the command docker PS so you can see it is running.
So we can go ahead and then verify the same thing.
So now it is running and all these ports information right 8081 to 8083 with slash TCP.
Right.
So those were here also you can see the range 8081 to 8083 is the host ports.
And 8081 to 8083 is the container ports with TCP as the protocol.
And in addition to that our 8080 is the local host desktop port with 80 as the container port with TCP
as the protocol currently exposed from this container.
Now we will go here and we will try to access it.
So first thing is we will say localhost 8080.
So it should provide a default index dot HTML response from nginx on port 80.
It is saying now we will try to copy it and try to access it with 8081.
So it is saying response from nginx on port 8081, right?
In the same way, if you try to access with 8082.
So you can see this is response from nginx on port 8082.
So it is serving all these pages.
Whatever we have deployed 80, 81 8082 and 8083.
So finally we will try to access 8083.
And even that is accessible now.
So a on port 80 of the container on port 80, 81 of the container, 8082 of the container and 8083 of
the container.
So this verification is successful.
Now if you want we can also connect to our uh our respective Docker container and then verify what is
present inside these folders directly using LS command or connect to that container using slash, bin,
slash and CD to this directory.
And then verify.
So we will try to run the command directly.
So we'll go here clear.
And I will say docker PS and docker exec hyphen it.
And my container name is this one right.
And I will say l s e t c engine x slash conf dot d.
And you should see uh, so there is a typo here.
We'll go here and it should be L s.
So it mistyped l s and we can see it in this folder you have default dot conf nginx 8081 dot conf,
nginx 8082 dot conf and 8083 dot conf.
In the same way we can also run the command ls lz for lz space usr share ingenix slash HTML.
So you should see index 8082, HTML index dot HTML 8081 dot HTML and index 8083 dot HTML.
So that's about verifying whatever the files we have copied inside that respective Docker image is available
in Docker container or not.
now.
The next thing here is we also need to test the curl command so we can go inside the container.
We will say docker exec hyphen I t.
And this is the container name and slash bin slash.
And we are inside the container.
Now if we run the hostname command this is the container ID.
So if we go here right this is the container ID let me try to exit I will say docker PS.
And you can see this is the Docker container ID.
Now if I try to run the command exec hyphen it my expose run with slash bin sh.
And if I run hostname.
So you can see container ID is the host name for for this container.
Now we need to run the command curl command right.
So we will say curl and http colon slash slash localhost.
So inside the container it is running on port 80 our default one right.
So default application.
So it is listening on port 80 is good.
Now the next thing is 8081 is one thing.
So you can see listening on port 8081 and now you can see 8082.
So that is also accessible curl and 8083 that is also accessible.
So we have successfully tested the curl command also.
So whatever we have implemented here we have tested whatever these copy, whatever the files we have
copied and exposed it with these ports.
We have tested it.
And we have also tested the curl whatever is installed in our Docker, uh, whatever is installed in
our Docker container.
Right.
Means like it is installed in the Docker image.
And we have run that as a container and verified inside the container.
So we have successfully tested everything as part of this demo.
One is run and other is expose.
Now let's go ahead and then remove whatever we have created as part of this demo.
One is container and the other is Docker image.
And now if I run the command docker images we should not see anything.
So I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-22: Docker tmpfs Mount ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile ENV, ARG, CMD and WORKDIR Instructions ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about docker file command instruction Workdir instruction and also
learn about env versus argument or arg instructions in detail.
So let's start with understanding about what is env instruction in docker file.
Env sets the environment variables in our Docker image and when we run it as a container, same env
variable will be persisted in our container.
In simple terms, what is the key difference?
If we understand between env and arg, it is going to be env is persisted in the final image and will
be available in the container when it is run from that image.
So that's the key difference when we talk about argh!
Argh!
Is not persisted in the final image, so no scope of using that value in the container when it is run
from the image.
So that's the difference.
How do we define these environment variables in our Docker file.
So we can use env space and provide the key value pairs.
So like name equal to curly and our school equal to some so and so ABC public school or class equal
to five.
So like this.
You can define these env variables in multiple lines.
Or you can define a single line like this.
So in Docker file every line is a new image layer.
So to save a minimum amount of thing if there is any possibility right to combine the commands into
a single command to have it as a single image layer.
So we can do this way, like using the multiple key value variables in a single line.
So here three layers will be created.
Here it is going to be a single layer.
We also have a alternate syntax env miwa e.
There is no equal to symbol space and then value, but which is not a recommended way.
But the recommended ways are using key equal to value, key equal to value, and key equal to value
with spaces in a single line.
These are the recommended ways for using envy instruction.
So these things I have put it here just for reference.
Zero one sample envy definitions just for reference.
Now let's also talk about work dir instruction.
So what is work dir instruction in docker file.
So it sets the working directory for any run cmd Entrypoint copy and add instructions that follow it
in the docker file.
So if you see it here right.
So the work dir instruction can be used multiple times in a Docker file.
So let's see here right.
So here is the work work dir.
And we said slash app.
What exactly we are doing.
Setting the working directory inside the container.
Inside the container we are setting this work directory.
So work dir slash app means inside container.
It is going to be slash app directory.
And what we are doing is copy requirements and install dependency to this work.
Dir.
So how you can do copy requirements dot txt which is present in my local desktop in where the docker
file is present and to requirements.txt directly, I said so now when I run this copy requirement dot
txt to requirement dot txt in the container, it will be copied to slash app because you already set
it.
So if you don't set this work dir then you need to provide it.
Slash api slash requirements dot txt.
So let's go to docker file and understand it.
So now if you come here you see you have set the work dir here.
So work dir.
Uh what happens is when you set it right so you don't need to specify here slash app slash directly.
It will be placed in the slash app only, so we don't need to specify in which why.
Because your directory might be slash b, c, d, e, f, g and some LFT.
Something like this.
Something big right?
And you need to use it in multiple commands here the directory.
So if you set once that will be the current directory.
And for that directory you can directly copy it.
You don't need to specify these things for every command here, so you can directly copy it accordingly
by specifying it directly.
So if you remove this now you can see it.
So in the same way if you go to app dot Pi, even this app dot Pi.
And if you set dot.
So this also will be copied to slash app only.
So you can directly say requirement dot, txt.
Or you can even say dot.
Also whatever is the file here you have present that will be placed in this slash app directory.
And you have one more here which is copy template slash.
So templates is a directory here.
So in the templates you have dev dot HTML and qa dot HTML.
So this copy template slash right.
So this templates whatever is present the complete templates folder will whatever is present inside
the templates will be copied to dot slash template.
Slash means slash API slash templates.
So in app folder inside templates it is going to copy this dev dot HTML and then QA dot HTML.
So that's the uh setting a root directory means like setting a directory.
And that directory we don't need to specify in our subsequent commands.
Following that respective workdir command, we can directly consider whatever you have defined.
Here will be the present working directory where you are copying it.
So whatever you have defined in Workdir.
Now let's come back here and understand more about it.
If Workdir are not specified, the default working directory is going to be a root directory.
So that's the important thing.
And another important thing here is if we are using any base image example, Python or any other image.
And in that image, if workdir is already set and that is going to be the workdir for that respective
image, whatever we are running it until and unless we explicitly set it, it might be a root or it
might be whatever is set on the base image.
Anything might be possible and important.
Note to avoid unintended operations in unknown directories, it is best practice to set your workdir
explicitly.
You can set your workdir and copy all your code and all the, uh, executables, like whatever you.
If it is a Java application, you want to install JDK, or if already JDK is installed, if you want
to run your Jar file, if you want to move your Jar file, all those things, you can move to your workdir.
And from there you can operate all your code related things.
Whatever you want to put in your Docker image.
Those things you set your workdir and then put it.
So if you see the sample here, you said workdir slash opt.
After that you said workdir apps, and after that you said Workdir my app one.
After that, when you run present working directory, which means in opt in apps in my app one you will
be present.
So that is one example.
So in opt in opt slash apps slash my app one.
So the result for this simple sample is slash opt apps my app one.
So this is one Workdir sample and the other Workdir sample here is this one.
So which we have already seen in our Docker file which we already reviewed it.
So you have set the Workdir as slash app and copying requirements.txt to requirements.txt, which means
you are copying this requirements.txt from your local directory where your docker file is present.
So here is the docker file present right?
So this is the docker file.
And there you have the requirement dot txt and app dot t these things you are copying it to slash app
directory even copy app dot pi and dot means it will go to slash app directory only copy templates slash
to dot slash template slash means whatever is present in templates directory will be copied to the templates
directory in slash app.
So these are the two simple examples about Workdir.
Now we also need to know about command instruction.
Instruction in Dockerfile.
So let us discuss that also in detail.
So it defines the command to run when starting a container from the image.
So you can see here you have defined starting the flask app command Python app dot pi.
You said here.
So only one command instruction is allowed per docker file.
And if there are multiple command instructions in your docker file, only the last one will be used
and it is used to set default commands or parameters for your container.
So if you want to once these all these things are executed, you want to start your Python application.
So you have defined it as the in the command, which means it will be executed as the default command
and as the, uh, so that your application will be started using this Python app dot pi command and
syntax options.
You can see command executable and you can pass params command.
And you can directly pass params and command.
And you provide the command without any flower brackets, without any square brackets.
And you can provide param one and param two.
These are the options available to define your command instruction.
So that's about on a very high level about command instruction.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement Workdir env and also command instruction and understand
it in detail.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-23: Deploy Multi-container Applications using Docker Commands ===


--- Step-02: Implement ENV vs ARG and verify ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about ARG, env command and Workdir instructions.
So we are in demo zero nine or section zero nine.
So we are going to learn the differences between using arg and env and how to use command run and Workdir
instructions.
Here we are going to create a simple Python flask application.
So why use arg and env together?
So this is one important thing which we need to understand.
The ARG instruction allows you to pass variables at build time without modifying the Dockerfile, making
it more dynamic and reusable.
So by combining arg and env, you can pass values configured during the build time process into the
runtime environment of the container.
So arg is used for build time customization and env is used for runtime customization.
So this separation makes the Dockerfile flexible at both stages without overlap or confusion.
So that's the key important thing here.
Now one thing we need to understand here based on our Dockerfile.
Right.
So first we will review the requirements.txt and these templates and also app.py.
And after that Dockerfile in Dockerfile.
Importantly we will review these two lines and come back to these statements whatever is present here.
So let us come back to this okay.
We'll start with requirements.txt in Docker files folder.
Right.
So we are using the flask Python flask application.
So we have defined flask here and in app.py right.
So let us go to app.py.
And this is a simple Python code.
So what we are trying to do in this Python code is we are going to get the environmental value which
is app underscore environment set on our Docker container.
So if if any value is set on our Docker container take that value.
If it is not sent, then use the default value.
Dev.
Okay.
Right.
So now what happens is if environment equal to dev render the dev dot HTML template.
If environment equal to qa, render the QA dot HTML template and when you access it via browser.
Right.
So with this localhost and then port 80 or whatever the mapped port on our localhost from the container
container runs on port 80.
But whatever we map on our localhost which is 8080 or whatever, right?
When we run it when we are running the container.
So when your environmental variable is set on your container app underscore environment is dev dev dot
HTML will be displayed.
So this is the dev dot HTML environment dev.
And if your app underscore environment is set as QA then QA dot HTML will be displayed for us.
So that's the demo.
So we are trying to test the environmental variable.
Whatever is set on our container.
So that's about requirements.txt.
Dev dot HTML.
QA dot HTML and then app.py.
Now come back to the docker file here.
So let's review the docker file.
So we are using the Python image.
And then from base Python image.
And these are the standard OCI labels.
We have defined it here.
Now let's start with defining a argument here.
So define build time argument for environment which defaults to dev environment.
So the arg environment is dev here.
And set the variable using the arg value.
So whatever is present in arg right.
So that you are setting as env app environment.
So this is the important one app environment equal to dollar environment.
So now whatever you have set in this environment argument.
So that can be also placed in the env variable right.
Env variable app environment.
What is happening here at build time.
You can always change the value when you are building the Docker image.
Also using hyphen.
Hyphen build arg argument by overriding the default whatever you have defined in this arg instruction.
Right?
So in build time, if you have put dev and in the runtime you can see the same dev because you are setting
it as env.
So in the build time this is the thing and in the runtime, which means when you are creating a Docker
container from the image, whatever you have built there, also you can see the dev and if you want
to build your Docker image with QA as the default environment, right?
So then you can build a new Docker image without changing the docker file using hyphen hyphen build
arg.
You can give QA so your environment set in.
That also is going to be QA, because whatever the environment is there, here you are providing it
as dollar environment.
So which means you can use the same value right in both build time and runtime by using env and arc
in combination.
The power of using them together is you can get the values same means like whatever the value you have
passed it using.
Hyphen hyphen build arc.
When building the Docker image, because our arg instruction does not persist the value either in the
image or in the container, so you can pass the same value to the environment variable.
App environment so that that can be persisted in the Docker image and can be used in the container.
So using these two in combination, it is a lot of power for us in the real world use cases where we
need it.
Now let's come back here.
So this is about arg and then env.
Now Workdir slash app and copy requirements.
These things we have already discussed.
And here we are installing the packages.
Whatever is present in requirement dot txt using run pip install r requirements.txt.
So after that we have copied the app.py with dot means inside slash app directory.
And we are copying the templates directory.
And here we are running a simple echo command building for environment.
And it will print the environment.
And finally you are running the command Python app dot pi to start your flask application.
So that is about Dockerfile in detail.
So we have uh, we have uh reviewed the Python application which is requirements.txt and templates dev
and QA dot HTML, and also reviewed the app dot pi and also reviewed the Docker file.
Now let us go ahead and then build the Docker image and see what is the output from that.
So we will go to we will go to our terminal here come out of zero eight demo and we will go inside zero
nine docker file arg env cmd Workdir.
And we will go to Docker files here.
And you can see all the files present here.
Now let's go ahead and then say docker build T and provide the docker image name as demo nine arg versus
env colon v one, which is the v one is the tag and dot means the current directory where docker file
is present.
And this should create a docker image for us.
And you can see.
Let's wait for the image to get created.
So it has downloaded Python and you can see the instructions one after the one how it is executed.
Second, see this is from Docker that is completed.
And then after that Workdir slash app is set and you have copied the requirements.txt to requirements.txt
in slash app and you have run the pip install command App.py copy templates and you can see echo building
the environment for dev environment.
It is saying and then it has created a Docker image for us.
So if I run the command docker images so you can see demo nine arg versus env v1 is ready for us.
Now what we will do is we will run the Docker container.
So this is the command to run it.
So let me copy this.
This is the demo one okay.
So docker run and hyphen hyphen name and hyphen p.
Right.
This is the name of my container.
And hyphen P8080 colon port of our container is 80 and host port is 8080 and hyphen d in detached mode.
And this is the docker image.
We are running it okay.
And then we will say v1.
And this should create a container for us which is when we run Docker PS we can see this container is
running for us.
So once the container is running, we will connect to the container and run the command env to verify.
So docker exec hyphen I t.
And then we will try to connect to the container and verify.
Or we can run the command env command inside the container.
When we run the env command.
So you can see app environment is dev inside the container.
All these are set inside the container path is this one right path is set.
Host name is this 1955B91C34B3.
So you can see it is the same name container ID.
And then you can see Python version and app environment is the key thing which you can see it here.
Now if you want you can also verify what is present in slash app directory ls slash app and in app directory
you can see app dot, p, y, requirements.txt and templates folder.
You can also say ls and l, r t and slash app.
And you can see these three are the things present inside the slash app directory inside container.
Or if you want, you can also go to directly container Inner and you can say slash bin slash bash or
slash bin slash slash maybe.
As such.
And we are inside the clear.
And unless we are directly in the slash.
App directory when we run that command.
And then you can see app dot pi.
Requirements.txt and templates folder.
So we can exit from this container.
Come.
Back here we have also verified the things whatever is required for us.
Now the final thing is we also need to test the application.
So let us go to.
The browser and access our application.
So because our app environment is set to.
Dev it should display as the dev environment environment equal to dev.
So.
ARG is build time and env is runtime variables which we have set and it is.
Accessible.
And now you can also run the Docker container by overriding the.
Environmental variables.
So that is very very important thing.
So how you can override the ARG instruction using hyphen.
Hyphen build arg during the build docker build command when you are executing means like during the
building of the docker image.
In the same way when running docker container, right?
So you can override the environment variable using hyphen e flag for docker run using hyphen E flag.
So you see here hyphen E is the overriding app environment to QA.
So that is the important thing.
So we are saying docker run and name of the container is my arg e env demo to QA.
So earlier one is you can see demo one dev.
And here it is demo to QA and port I am using is 8081 for my localhost means like for my local desktop
and container port is 80 and hyphen e app environment.
I am saying QA and then hyphen d and then in detached mode I am running which docker image demo nine
org versus env docker image.
So this is the one.
So we can copy paste and run it.
Or we can also say docker docker images.
And we can say docker run hyphen hyphen name.
I'll try to put the name in the similar format.
And after that we can also say hyphen P8081 colon eight.
Run it in detached mode hyphen d.
And this is the Docker image which we are running using to run the container.
So we will run it.
Okay, but one more thing which is pending here is hyphen E.
Right.
So let's also provide that hyphen E and set the environment which is app environment equal to QA.
And now if I run the command docker PS just two seconds before this demo to share related docker container
is running.
So if I run the command docker exec hyphen it.
And this is the container QA.
Container.
Let me copy paste qa container.
And if I run the command env command.
So you can see here app environment is set as QA.
Now if I try to access right localhost localhost 8081 it should display QA.
If I access localhost localhost 80.
If I go here 80 it is displaying dev 80 and 8081.
It is displaying QA because in QA in in in.
8081 we have set means like in the container two we have set app environment as QA.
So that is about the uh understanding about arg versus env commands in detail.
In our next lecture we will focus on learning about workdir and CMD instructions or verifying them in
detail.
So I'll see you in the next lecture until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-24: Docker Compose: Basics (MySQL DB as Service) ===


--- Step-03: Learn about WORKDIR, CMD and override buildtime ARG ---

Welcome back.
In this step we are going to verify workdir and command instructions.
So we will go to our Docker container and verify what is present in slash up which we have already done.
But one more time we will cross verify.
So we will go here and we will say Docker and we will say PS and docker and exec hyphen I t any of the
container you can take, I will take the dev container and I will say ls hyphen l, r t and slash app.
And in that you can see these are the things present okay.
Which means whatever the in the docker file, whatever we have specified let me go to the docker file.
So we said that copy requirements.txt to requirements.txt.
So you can see the requirements.txt here in slash app directory and copy app dot pi to dot which is
to slash app.
So that also you can see and you can see copy templates folder to templates folder.
So now if whatever is present inside that.
So I will say templates folder and you can see QA dot HTML and dev dot HTML inside the container inside
slash app templates folder.
And when you go to the command instruction right.
So you can use inspect command to verify for that respective image.
So we can run this command right directly Docker images and Docker images and Docker image inspect.
Right.
And this is the uh Docker image.
So let me copy it and colon v one.
And here if you go and then search for the command instructions.
So if you go this is the command instruction python and app dot p y.
So it is set properly.
Now the next thing is setting default environment to QA without changing the docker file.
So how we are going to do so in my Docker file default environment whatever you are seeing is dev deaf
and without changing it.
How you are going to set the default environment to QA.
So how do you ensure the default environment is QA when building the docker image without changing the
docker file is the question, so you can override the environment variables at build time using build
time argument.
During the image build process using the hyphen hyphen build arg flag.
This allows you to set the default app environment to QA.
In the image without modifying the docker file.
So now you can build a new Docker image with with the tag as v1 hyphen qa.
And here you are saying hyphen hyphen build arg and environment equal to QA right?
So let's try that.
Okay.
So we'll try that and then see what happens.
Okay.
Now I have created a new Docker image.
And now let's wait for it.
And now if we see it right run echo building for environment QA.
So you can see it is printed for QA.
Now if I run the Docker images, you can see the v1 with v1 qa tag and new docker image is created.
Let's run it and see whether the default environment.
Also we are getting as QA.
So when you run that also because in the image itself you have the QA environment set up.
Right?
So as a environmental variable app environment.
So obviously when you run it also by default it should give us the uh, it should give us the QA environment.
When we access localhost 8082 port docker run hyphen hyphen name my r env demo three, which is a qa
demo and port is 8080.
Map to the container port 80 and this is the new one v1 hyphen.
QA is the uh, our docker tag.
So let me run this.
And now if we go to the docker PS, we can see just now a new container is started.
And now if we go here and run the command env for this new container.
Right.
And you can see here environment is set as QA.
Now if you also go ahead and then access it with 8082 localhost and 8082, it should be QA.
So everything is set in default.
So what happened here.
You have set the you have let us go back here.
You have set the environmental variable as a using hyphen.
Hyphen build ARG related flag when running the docker build with QA.
So that is first thing, which means you can override the arg instructions during the build time using
hyphen.
Hyphen build arg.
Now same value.
You are putting it here for env.
So app environment is also set as the same thing.
Whatever you have given in the build time.
So using arg and env together, whatever you pass with hyphen, hyphen build arg right as a overriding
value can be set at the runtime and used in the container right using env variable.
whatever we set it.
So that's the important thing here.
So this completes the demo about arg env command and then work dir.
So here there are a lot of explanation I have provided here.
And also in the additional notes section which you can review them in detail.
Now we'll go ahead and then clean up all the things here.
So how to clean up.
So you have three containers running Docker PS.
So the easy command is docker rm hyphen f dollar docker PS hyphen aq.
And this should remove all the three docker containers.
Now if we will also see Docker images and we'll say docker rmi and docker docker images hyphen q.
And this should remove all my Docker images.
And if you see there are no Docker images here.
So this completes the demo about arg env workdir and command instructions.
So I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-25: Docker Compose: Named Volumes with additional Metadata ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile CMD - Override with docker run command ---

Welcome back.
In the previous demo, we already learned about command instruction, so which we used to run the Python
application.
But here we are also going to learn about one more important feature about command instruction, which
is nothing.
But we can override the command instruction, whatever we have defined in Dockerfile, and created a
Docker image using docker run command when creating the container.
So that's what we are going to do.
So what is command instruction and all those things which we have already discussed as part of previous
demo.
So here we are going to focus on one important thing, which is it can be overridden by specifying a
different different command during Docker run.
So if you see here this is a simple nginx uh docker file.
And here to run the nginx container we can provide the command nginx hyphen g demon off.
So this is the command you can provide to run the nginx container.
So earlier in the previous demos when we are using nginx, we didn't provide any command instruction
because it is already inherited from the base image, we really do not need to specify, but here we
are specifying it because just for learning purpose and what we will do is we will run one container
using this, which means your nginx will be started.
And then you can access your sample application.
So that is one part.
And you will run one more container wherein instead of uh starting your container by default command,
whatever is present here, we will try to override it.
So if you see here I am saying docker run and my command demo2.
Right.
And this is the docker file.
And here you can see I am overriding the command with slash bin slash.
So which means whatever the command is present here, it will be overrided with whatever we have passed
during the docker run.
And obviously nginx will not get started because you have passed slash bin slash as the thing to your
cmd and this whole thing will be not executed.
Which means in this container nginx will not be started.
So those things we are going to go and then review as part of this demo.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-26: Docker Compose: Multi-container Application - UMS WebApp + MySqlDB ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile CMD override with docker run ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo ten or section ten where we are learning about cmd Dockerfile instruction.
So here let's go ahead and then review the Dockerfile and also index.html and run the docker image.
Uh run the docker container from the image.
First build the docker image and then run the container.
So let's go back to our Visual Studio Code.
And we are in ten Dockerfile cmd.
And here in the docker file you can see we are using the base nginx image Alpine Slim.
And then these are the OCI labels.
We are copying this index dot HTML cmd Dockerfile instruction related index.html to usr share nginx.
HTML.
And here you have defined a simple default cmd to start the nginx in the foreground, which is cmd nginx
hyphen g daemon off.
So these are the things it is going to use to start the nginx on this respective Docker container when
we run this Docker image as a Docker container.
Now let's go ahead and then build the Docker image first.
Right.
So docker build hyphen t and demo ten docker file cmd v1 and then dot.
So using this you can build the Docker image.
So now let's go to demo ten.
And inside Docker files we have created a Docker image.
So let's wait for it to get created.
So once a Docker image is created if we want we can also docker image uh images and docker image inspect.
And then you can run this uh docker image name colon v1.
And you can see the cmd instruction here.
And this is the one nginx hyphen g demon of is the cmd instruction.
It is a built for means like when the container is, uh created using this Docker image, it will run
the nginx for us.
So let's go ahead and then run the command container which is my cmd demo one.
So no additional parameters here.
Default one.
It should start the nginx container without any issues.
So let's go here and run that command.
And now if you see docker PS it should create a my cmd demo one container even if you try to access
it localhost 8080 right in localhost 8080.
Your application cmd docker file instruction and you can see uh cmd specify default commands.
All these things are displayed.
Basic cmd related demo is displayed here.
Now what we are going to do is whether nginx is running on this or not.
We are going to docker exec hyphen I t.
And this is the command.
This is the container name.
And I will say PS ox.
And you can see nginx process is running here.
Nginx hyphen g daemon is running inside the container.
So that's the thing means like this is a demo wherein we didn't override the command instruction.
It is working as expected, and if we want we can also say docker p inspect and provide the container
name.
So this is the container name.
So let me open it and you should see it here in the command you can see the same command nginx hyphen
g demo of is present.
So let me clear this.
And now in the next step Docker container run Docker container by overriding the cmd.
So we will say docker run hyphen hyphen, name my cmd demo two and hyphen it.
And then uh demo ten docker file hyphen cmd v1 and then slash bin slash.
So this should override the command instruction.
So let's see what happens.
And it will directly connect to the terminal of the container.
Because you said hyphen it and you said slash bin slash.
So it connected to the terminal of the container hostname.
If I say this is a different container.
So if you go back here if we want we can go to Docker Desktop here and go to the containers a new container
is created.
My demo two whose container ID ending with zero one FAA right.
Who's zero one, FAA is the container ID and you can see inside that if you run the command PS ox okay.
PS ox there is no nginx command running inside it.
So nginx is not started.
Only slash bin slash is executed.
So what we can do is we will try to open a new terminal here.
And I will say docker PS and I will say docker inspect and inspect this my cmd demo two.
Right.
So which we have overrided the cmd command.
So now if you go inside that inspect file and search for the CMD.
Right.
So let's go up and cmd.
You can see here the cmd is slash bin slash.
So very clearly whatever we have said here.
So this slash bin slash is override it so that you override the default command whatever we have defined
in the Docker file.
So this is override with slash bin slash which we have passed in the docker run command.
So that's what we have tested it in detail.
So in simple terms we can override the CMD command present in our Docker file which we have created
the Docker image.
And from that whatever we have created the container using Docker run command.
So when creating a container you can override the cmd command whatever you have, whatever the default
available on that Docker image.
So that's the key important thing.
So let me close this and also exit.
And now you can see docker PS we have uh container running rm hyphen f.
And then this is the container we will remove and docker PS minus hyphen a.
And one more stopped container we have which is my cmd demo two I will say docker rm hyphen f and my
cmd demo two also will be cleaned up.
And now PS or PS hyphen a nothing is present, so I will also RMI and I will also remove the docker
images images hyphen q.
And if I say docker images there should not be anything.
So we have successfully stopped and removed all the containers here.
So this completes the demo about command instruction and how it can override on a default cmd command
using docker run.
So more details are provided here for your additional understanding.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-27: Docker Compose: DEPLOY (Scale  containers) -  Nginx + UMSWeb  + MySqlDB ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile ENTRYPOINT instruction ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about docker file entrypoint instruction.
So this entrypoint instruction will be same as like command instruction.
And it allows you to configure a container that will run as an executable.
So it is useful for setting up a container that runs a specific command or application.
So we can use Entrypoint or command hand in hand.
But if we want to understand the clear differences.
So let's discuss them in detail.
So entrypoint versus command instructions.
So the main purpose of Entrypoint is to which it sets the main command for the container.
But when you talk about command instruction it sets the default commands or parameters.
So that's about command instruction and overriding right.
So when you want to override the entry point right can be changed with Docker run with hyphen, hyphen,
entry point, flag.
And when we talk about command instruction, if you want to override when you are running, the docker
run is by passing the arguments to docker run command.
In the previous demo itself, we have seen that how to override the command instruction.
We just passed the argument slash bin slash.
So that slash bin slash is overriding the default nginx command which we have defined in our Docker
file.
So for command instruction you can just pass the arguments.
And those will be override.
And for entry point instruction whatever you have defined in the Docker file.
So you have example like if you go to that respective demo Docker file entry point.
And here you have defined something here right.
So this entry point, if it need to be override then you need to use the hyphen hyphen entry point flag
in your docker run command.
So the common use case is like entry point will be used as a main process which rarely changes, and
for command instruction is for setting defaults or optional parameters.
And when we talk about flexibility about entrypoint and cmd in entrypoint, it is fixed and used for
primary command, and in CMD it is flexible, used as a backup command or options and example entry
point.
And you can provide program and then param and in command.
Also you can provide program example like nginx and some parameters for that nginx.
And you can also use command space without any d square brackets.
You can use param one param two something like that.
But key important thing we need to understand about entry point is it can be run as the main process
for your container.
That rarely changes.
So that is the important thing.
Now let us go ahead and then practically implement it.
So we will get a more understanding of entry point.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-28: Docker Compose: NETWORKS (Frontend: Web, App, Backend: App, DB) ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile ENTRYPOINT instruction ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 11 or section 11 where we are going to learn about or practically implement Docker file
entrypoint instruction.
So here we are going to create a simple docker file with entrypoint instruction, and build a docker,
build a Docker image and verify its functionality.
So how we are going to understand it?
We are going to understand this in three ways.
Means like use entrypoint as a D as defined in the docker file, and then create a Docker container
and then verify whether the entrypoint or output is same as what is expected.
And after that, we will append additional arguments to the entrypoint instruction and verify.
In addition to that, we will override the Entrypoint instruction using hyphen, hyphen Entrypoint flag
and then verify.
So these three things we are going to do which means three Docker containers.
We are going to create after building a Docker image using this entry point demo.
So let's go ahead and then review the Docker image here.
So we'll go here to Visual Studio Code.
And in section 11 Docker file entry point we have a Docker file in Docker files folder.
And which is we are going to use a ubuntu base Docker image and add these OCI labels.
And here we are going to run the entry point right.
So entry point uh with a simple thing here.
So in this ubuntu right we are going to run a simple echo command.
Echo is the program.
And this is the parameter you are passing to the echo.
So you are saying entry point and then echo and then Kalyan.
So this is the very simple example.
But we need to understand these three things how it works here okay.
Right.
So these three things we are trying to understand.
So let us go ahead and then build a Docker image with name as demo 11 Docker file entrypoint.
Colon v1 v1 as the tag.
So we'll go to.
So we'll come out of this and we'll go to demo 11.
And in demo 11 we'll go to Docker Files folder.
And I'll say Docker build hyphen t and demo 11 docker file entry point demo with dot where the docker
file is present.
So this should create a Docker image for us.
So let's wait for the Docker image to get created.
So once the Docker image is created we will say Docker images.
And we can see our Docker image is created.
So let's start with implementing or running it first okay.
So we'll run entrypoint as is which means docker run hyphen hyphen.
Name my entry point demo one.
And this is the docker uh docker image name.
And then tag what we have created.
So we will copy this and we will go here.
Clear Docker images and I will say docker run hyphen hyphen name.
And this is the docker image.
Copy colon v1.
And you can see output is clear.
When you run the Docker container.
So if you run the docker PS also that container will not be there.
It will run it will it will run to completion.
So that container will be run and then exited.
See it is exited also it has run to completion and exited.
And what it has done, it said it its process is to just say Echo Colon and it has done that.
So it said Echo Colon.
And then once it is run it is done, it is run Echo Colon and then it exited.
So that is what it has done.
Now the next thing here is write the container runs and outputs Kalyan which is argument provided in
the entry point instruction during the Docker image build.
So this is done.
Demo one second is append arguments to entry point.
So if you run the command docker run my entry point demo two and this is the docker image and add some.
When you add the argument here right, it will append to your entry point.
This is very important thing to remember when we compare it with command instruction.
So let's go back here and let's go to the demo ten here and rereview one more time what we have done
in this demo.
So let's come back here.
And what you have done here is the docker run for this command instruction.
You have passed an argument here right.
So this argument is overriding the nginx argument.
Whatever is present in your Docker file.
So when you are using command, when you pass a argument to your docker run command, something like
this, it overrides your cmd whatever you have defined in your Docker file.
So that's the thing from command instruction.
But in entrypoint instruction you need to understand that when you are running the docker run and passing
some argument here, what it will do is it will append.
It will append.
Append is the key thing.
So for entry point it is append.
And for command instruction it is override.
So that's the thing.
So now let's go ahead and then run this my entry point demo two.
And we will say Docker images clear docker images docker run hyphen hyphen.
Name my entry point demo two.
And this is the entry point uh related docker image v1.
And I am saying ready.
And this should be appended to the current entry point which is echo Kalyan to Kalyan.
It should be appended and it should provide Kalyan Reddy.
Right.
And if you want you can provide one more.
If you want to test it, you can provide something and then you can test it.
But we'll go to the next demo now.
So you understood right in entry point it will append.
If you pass any arguments and in command it will override that command whatever you have defined.
Now the next thing is override entry point instruction.
How to do that using hyphen hyphen entry point flag you can override.
So here docker run and the name of the container you are giving is my entry point.
Demo three.
And you are saying entry point should be override with slash bin slash sh and with hyphen.
See so and so all these things whatever is there.
So all these things will be appended for that.
So in entry point you will have the uh you will have this as the, uh, program and this as the argument.
So this whole thing as the argument.
So now let's go ahead and then run this and see what happens okay.
And you can see overridden entry point instruction by Kalyan ready data.
So you have overridden it.
And whatever you have is just Kalyan right.
Echo Kalyan that is overridden now because you have used the hyphen, hyphen entry point flag to override
it.
So that's the important thing here.
The entry point flag overrides the entry point instruction specified in the docker file.
The container runs the slash bin slash with the hyphen C option.
Executing the echo command.
The container outputs the entire whatever the message we have defined here.
So this is the message we have defined here.
So this is the complete message overridden entry point instruction by Kalyan.
Ready.
So that is displayed for us.
So we have successfully tested entry point in three ways whatever is the default one that is displayed.
And second is how to append means.
Like when you pass arguments to your docker run command, those will be appended for your entry point.
And when you use command cmd instruction, it will overwrite that.
Also, we have learned and how to override the entry point instruction defined in docker file.
Also, we have learned.
So these three things we have learned as part of this demo.
Now let's go ahead and then clean up PS minus A.
We have three containers running are in exited state.
Few of them are rm hyphen f and dollar docker PS hyphen a q should remove all three containers.
If I say docker PS hyphen a nothing is present.
Docker rmi dollar docker images hyphen q should also remove any images present here.
Okay, and now everything is cleaned up.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-29: Docker Compose: HEALTHCHECKS ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile HEALTHCHECK Instruction ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about health check instruction in Docker file.
So what is health check instruction in docker file.
It tells Docker how to test a container to check that it's still working.
So that's what it is going to do.
This can detect cases such as web server stuck in a loop, unable to handle new connections, even if
still it is in the running state.
So it's a very good instruction to put in to verify or verify our container health check.
Right?
So now it will have the following statuses one is starting initially during the start of the container
it will have the health check will have the starting status.
And when health check passes it will have the healthy status and it will be marked as unhealthy after
consecutive health check failures.
So any of these three statuses it is going to have.
And if you see the health check here right.
So this is the health check definition how you need to define it.
So let us see the syntax in detail.
So this health check uh you need to provide health check as the instruction.
And these are the values present inside them.
So if you go back here so here you say that interval is one argument for that or one flag timeout is
one flag start period is one flag and retry is one flag.
So interval is time between running the checks.
Default is 30s.
Uh, every 30s it will check the health check.
If you want to change it, you can change it in interval.
So time and timeout is time.
The check is allowed to run before it is considered to have failed.
So default is 30s.
You can change it and start period.
So initialization time before starting the health check.
So how much time it need to wait?
Default is zero seconds.
Example like your container takes example like 30s or one minute to start and your process should be
ready.
Some complex process, some Java application and it need to take time to start it.
So at that point of time you can change your start period to the desired amount, how much time your
application takes to start, so that after that only it will start doing the health checks.
So that is start period and retry.
Default is three.
Number of consecutive failures needed to consider the container is unhealthy.
So if continuously three times your health check fails then only it will be marked as unhealthy right.
So that's about these things okay interval timeout start period and retries.
After that you will say command and after command you will provide curl hyphen f and you will provide
your application URL.
Whatever is there.
Mine is running on port 80.
My container will be running.
Container port is 80.
So I will suggest localhost.
And then once the health check is done it is going to say exit one.
Okay.
So that is what we need to define.
If you want to have health check.
Now I have a question here in your base image itself you in the base image itself health check is present.
And that is inherited in this Docker file right.
It will inherit if it is present in the base image nginx alpine slim.
But you don't want to implement that health check in your application, but you want to use that base
image.
In that case, what you can do is you can define health check space none.
You can define so that any any health check which is inherited from the base image can be, uh, it,
uh, we don't need to if we don't want to use it, you can say none there.
So that's about health check instruction.
Let's go ahead and then practically implement it and understand it.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then.
Bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-30: Docker Compose: STARTUP ORDER with Conditions ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile HEALTHCHECK Instruction ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 12 which is Docker file instruction health check.
We are going to learn as part of this demo.
So we are going to use a simple nginx docker file and implement a health check here.
So let's go ahead and then review our docker file for demo 12.
In Docker files folder we have the docker file.
Here we are using a nginx alpine slim base image.
And these are the default OCI labels we have defined.
And we are going to install the curl in our nginx image because health check needs curl to run the curl
command cmd curl hyphen f http localhost, it is going to run right.
So for that purpose in your Docker image, in your nginx docker image, you need to have the curl package
installed needed for our health check command.
So we will install the curl.
And after that we'll copy index.html to usher nginx HTML.
So this is simply like docker file health check instruction demo inside the index.html.
So we'll go back to docker file.
And here in the health check.
We said interval is 30s, timeout is 30s start period is five seconds.
Within five seconds my nginx will be started and start interval.
Also you can see within five seconds and retries three seconds, not three seconds.
Retries is three times, so three times.
If it consecutively fails, I am going to say it as like it is marked as unhealthy.
That container and command and curl hyphen f and localhost.
My container is listening on port 80 and then exit one.
So these are the things we have defined as a, uh, health check uh, instruction in our Docker file.
Now let's come back here and then create a Docker image whose name is demo tool Docker file health check
v1.
So now let's come back to our terminal here.
Come out of previous demo and enter into current demo which is tool Docker file health check.
And inside that we'll go inside Docker files.
And I will say docker build hyphen t.
And this is the demo tool Dockerfile health check colon v1 and then dot.
So this should create a docker image for us.
So let's wait for the docker image to get created.
And in that you can see it.
One step here is to install the curl command.
Copy the index dot HTML.
All those things are present here.
Now let's come back and run the command docker images and our Docker image is created.
Now we'll go back here and inspect that respective image Docker image inspect.
And here you can go ahead and then search for your health check inside this okay.
So you can see health check is defined in detail.
Health check test.
You are saying command shell curl hyphen f localhost piped with exit one.
So that's the thing.
Or you can run the command image inspect with format JSON dot config dot health check only if you want
to display health check related information from the uh inspect output.
Okay, so you can see it in detail here.
So this is the thing interval and time out.
Start period.
Start interval.
Retrace everything.
We can see them here.
Let's run the Docker container and verify the things.
So when you run the container it will show that once it is successful in the status you will see healthy.
So let's go ahead and then run this docker run hyphen hyphen name my health check demo hyphen p and
8080 is my localhost or local desktop port.
80 is the container port.
We are going to run it in the detached mode and docker image name is demo tool docker file health check
v1.
So we can copy paste or we can run.
We can write the command.
Anything is fine right?
Multiple times we have run this type of written this type of command.
So I am just copy pasting.
So I will say Docker and then PS and you can see it here it is showing healthy now.
So starting we didn't see because it is quick.
Okay.
Uh now you can see it is in the healthy status.
So you can see the status is healthy.
Now if you want you can inspect state Dot health from this okay.
You can run this command and you can see it is continuously running and then getting the output.
Let me try one more time and you can see the status is healthy.
You can say state dot health in the JSON file and you can get that.
Or you can directly see the uh docker images and docker inspect, uh, no docker PS and docker inspect
and provide the container name or container ID.
So I will provide this.
And if you go up here right network settings interval.
State dot health is the thing.
Let me go up.
And here is the thing.
So you can see it here.
Health of your container.
You can see it here in detail.
So status is running.
And you can see the log information which is start and exit code and output.
And completely it is logging the information about the health.
Check here means like our sample application, whatever we are accessing.
Like localhost will serve a page for us right.
So that is displayed there.
If you want we can also access that page using browser localhost 8080.
So we can see Docker file health check instruction.
We can see our application is.
Accessible.
The container should be in the healthy state as indicated by the.
Status column in a Docker PS the health instruction periodically checks.
The health of the application inside the container.
So that is what it has done.
So we have successfully tested the health check instruction in our Docker file.
Now let us go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created I have removed.
The container.
And I will also remove the Docker image.
So if I run the command docker images.
Nothing is present.
So this completes the demo about health check instruction in.
A docker file I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-31: Docker Compose: PROFILES ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Dockerfile USER Instruction ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about user instruction in Docker file.
So let's understand what is user instruction in a Docker file.
So this user instruction sets the default user and group ID for the rest of the stage in our build process.
So example in this Docker file we can see we have used the user instruction here which means after this
respective line whatever you see example the command instruction will use the user whatever we have
used here.
So it sets the default user and group for the rest of the stage.
So whatever the commands defined after this user instruction will use the user defined here.
And these.
This user instruction is applicable only for run Entrypoint and CMD instructions are commands.
So for run command entry command and CMD command it is going to use the user instruction.
Whatever we have set here.
One important note about this user instruction is if a user.
If a group is set only, that group applies.
Other groups are ignored and from security perspective, user context.
From security perspective.
If you look into it, running containers as non-root user enhances by minimizing the potential impact
of vulnerabilities.
So that is the very, very important thing.
So if we are running security sensitive applications, it is good to run them as non-root user.
In addition to that, by specifying a user with limited permissions, the attack service is ready.
The attack surface is reduced, making it harder for malicious actors to exploit the container.
So the best practice is to use user instruction for all the cases, wherever it is applicable.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this and then understand it in detail.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-32: Docker Compose: LINKS ===


--- Step-02: Implement Dockerfile USER Instruction ---

Welcome back.
We are in section 13, our demo 13, where we are going to practically implement the Docker file user
instruction.
So here we are going to use a simple Python flask application, and also use the user instruction to
run the Python flask application as a Non-root user.
So let's go ahead and then understand what is that simple Python application.
And also review the Docker file.
So we'll go back to our Visual Studio Code.
And we are in section 13 Docker file user.
And then in the Docker files folder we have app dot pi and docker file.
So let's start with the app dot pi.
So this is a simple Python application wherein we are going to get the user ID and then user name and
group id and then group name.
And then print those user name and group name.
So with which user we are running this application so that user related user ID and group ID, we are
going to print user name, user ID and group name and group ID will be printed.
This application will be exposed on port 5000 or this application will be run on port 5000.
Now let us come back to the docker file and review the docker file.
So we are using the Python as the base image.
And we are setting the workdir as usr src app in our container.
And we are going to copy the star dot p y to dot means to this location, which means we have only app
dot p y which will be copied to this location in our container.
Right.
So when the and in addition to that, we are also going to install the flask package and using run instruction.
And after that we are also going to set the environment variables user, my Python user and environmental
group my Python group.
Right.
So this is optional.
Ideally not needed, but just for learning purpose I have put it there okay.
And now we will also run and we will create a group and we will create a user.
So we will create a group with name my Python group.
And we will create a user with the name user and associate that to the group.
Whatever we have created, its user is going to be my Python user.
And that user will be associated with the group, my Python group.
So this command will do that job.
And after that, for this usr src app we are going to view my Python user colon my Python group.
Related permissions.
After that we are going to switch to the Non-root user, which is my Python user user dollar user.
So you can see user and group are defined here as env variables and variable names are user and then
group.
So we are going to switch to that Non-root user.
And once we are switching to that Non-root user using that Non-root user, which is my Python user,
we are going to run the command Python app dot pi.
So we are going to run the Python application with that.
And we are going to expose 5000 port for our flask application, which means our container is going
to run on port 5000.
So that's about the Docker file.
So we have reviewed the app dot pi and Docker file.
Now let's go back here and create a Docker image and then run it.
So the Docker image name we are going to give is demo 13.
Docker file user colon tag is v1.
So we will go to the container here.
We will come out of this and we will say we will go to section 13 docker file user.
And inside that Docker files folder we will run the command docker build T and the Docker image is.
The name is demo 13.
Dockerfile user colon v1 and where is the docker file present in the current directory.
So I will say dot and this should build a new Docker image for us.
So let us see the steps here.
So it is currently building it.
So let's wait for it.
And you can see it has downloaded the Docker image.
And then trying to build on top of that base image.
So let's wait for it.
So we can see here.
Step one is complete.
And step two Workdir is set.
Step three which is copy star dot pi is completed.
Step four which is installing the flask application.
Step five which is adding the My Python group and my Python group and user related step is completed
giving the permission my Python user to my python group with for usr usr src app folder is completed
and uh, now we can see all the steps are completed.
Right?
Six by six.
And these steps are not shown here.
But that's fine.
Those will be executed anyway.
Now we will go ahead and then let me clear this and Docker images.
And you can see the Docker image is built.
Now let's go ahead and then run.
The Docker image means like run a container for using this Docker image.
So we will provide the name as my user demo.
So I will run the command docker run hyphen, hyphen name and container name is my user demo hyphen
p and my localhost or desktop port is 5000 and also my container port.
Also I will use 5000.
I'll run it in the detached mode and my docker image is demo 13.
Docker file user and colon v one.
And if I run the command docker PS we can see my user demo container is running now, so if we want
we can go ahead and then access it in browser.
So we'll go here and say localhost and I'll give you 5000.
And you can see it here very clearly my Python user.
Hello from user.
My Python user and group is my Python group.
So everything is working as expected.
Now if we want we can also connect to the thing and then verify the files and then environment variables
and everything we can verify.
Okay.
So now let's come back here and docker exec hyphen I t.
And my user demo is the container name.
And I will say slash bin slash bash.
And you can see directly it logged into the my Python user.
If I say id, it is my Python user and my Python group.
And if you see here also app dot p y right has the permission my Python user colon my python group.
So whatever we have given it is working as expected.
In simple terms, we have given very limited permissions for our application with a Non-root user and
due to that our attack surface is reduced.
So that is the key important thing.
And in addition to that, whatever the env we have set, whether it is set or not, also we can verify.
So we can see uh env grep user and you can see the user and env grep group whether it is set or not
just for learning purpose.
To test env one more time I have added it in the docker file.
That is all.
Okay.
So we have added them here and we have verified them in our container.
That is the thing.
And how do you connect to the container with the root user, which is running its process with the non-root
user?
So here the terminology should be running its process with Non-root user.
This should be Non-root user.
I have connected it, which means like my application is running with a Non-root user, which is my
Python user.
And for that container, if you want to connect with the root user, you need to say docker exec and
hyphen, hyphen user root and rest.
All is as is.
Okay, so let me go here and run the command docker PS docker exec hyphen hyphen user root hyphen I
t and provide my user demo as the container name and then slash bin slash bash.
So we can see it here.
There is a typo in the command.
Let me fix it.
We will say Docker, and now we are connected to the root user in usr src app.
So we connected to the container with the root user, not a uh, my Python user.
So let me say clear.
And if I say id I have connected as root.
So let me come out of the container.
And this completes the learning of user instruction in Docker file in a practical way.
Now let us go ahead and then remove the container and the Docker image.
So we will say docker images docker PS and docker rm hyphen f and my user demo.
So let me remove the container and docker rmi and also remove the image whatever we have created just
now.
So this cleans up all the things, whatever we have created as part of this demo.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-33: Docker Compose: ALIASES ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Ports ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker ports.
So how to use single ports and how to use multi ports.
So all those things we are going to learn.
So let's understand about port mapping with hyphen p flag.
So here p is a small case.
So this maps host ports to container ports using small p or smaller case p.
So when you use hyphen p you need to first provide your host port which is your on your local desktop
where you want to expose that container and then also provide the container port.
So this we have used in our multiple demos so far whatever we have implemented.
So it allows direct access to the container services via designated host ports.
So we will provide docker run name of your container and hyphen P.
And here 8090 is your host port which is your local desktop port.
And 80 is your container port and hyphen D.
It is going to run in detach mode.
And this is your Docker image with a tag.
That is the thing.
So important things here are.
With smaller case p we are going to map host port to container port in in our docker run command.
Now let's understand about capital case P here okay.
So use hyphen capital P to publish all exposed ports to random high numbered host ports.
So that's the important thing here.
So random high numbered host ports ideal for multi port applications where manual mapping of ports is
cumbersome.
So if you see it here here you have done a manual mapping.
This is my 8090 will be my host port mapped to the container port 80.
But if you have multiple ports in your application and those all need to be exposed on your host ports.
And if there is a means like if you are not able to manage those mappings manually, then it is easy
to use hyphen capital k, s p so that everything will be automated.
It automatically or dynamically assigns the high numbered ports, so ports are dynamically assigned
and can be viewed using Docker PS command.
So you can see docker run hyphen hyphen name and provide the demo name here a container name and this
is the capital k s p.
And we are going to run it in detached mode hyphen d.
And if you provide your Docker image automatically, it is going to assign the higher number of ports
from your local desktop for that respective container to access those services.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this so we get a complete picture.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-34: Docker Compose: BUILD ===


--- Step-02: Implementation of Docker Single Port demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in section 14, our demo 14 where we are going to learn about Docker ports.
So here in this demo itself we are going to have two sub demos.
One is with single port and one is with multi port.
So let's start with a single port demo.
So we have a simple nginx file with simple docker file right.
And a simple index dot HTML.
We are going to build the docker image and run the uh docker docker container using single port mapping.
So this is one thing.
And in addition to that we are also going to use ephemeral ports.
So using small case p we are we have done this multiple times mapping host port to container port.
But another thing which we are going to do with the same thing is with same single port, is we are
going to use hyphen p and only container port here we are not going to provide any host port at that
point of time.
What happens is automatically a host port will be allocated here.
Okay, so ephemeral port will be allocated a dynamic port use using which we can access from our local
desktop that respective container, uh, application hosted in that container.
So let us test these things okay.
So we will go back here to our Visual Studio Code.
And we are in demo 14 Docker ports.
And in in demo 14 we are going to go to zero one Docker files single port.
And here in the index.html we have a simple index.html saying docker ports, host port and container
port.
And in the docker file you have the OCI labels.
This is the simple nginx alpine slim base image.
And we are going to copy this index.html to usr share nginx.
HTML.
So we are focusing on ports here, not the docker image okay.
So now let us come back to our terminal.
Here we will come out of previous demo will go to 14 Docker ports and inside that in zero one Docker
files single port.
So we will go inside that and we will try to build a Docker image for that and then test it.
So we are going to say demo 14, docker single port v1, docker build hyphen t and docker image name
is demo 14 docker single port colon v1 and dot where the docker file is present.
So this docker build.
Instead of that I said built.
Let me remove and enter and this should create a docker image for us.
Now let's wait for it to get created.
It is created now if I run the command docker images we have the docker image.
So let us start with our basic demo which is my ports.
Demo one where you are mapping 8090 of your host to 80 of your container.
Pretty standard demo, which we have done in our previous lectures multiple times.
So I will just copy paste docker PS and you can see it here from your local host 8090.
You can access 80 TCP port in your container.
So let's test that okay.
So we will access here and I will say localhost 8090.
And welcome to stack simplified Docker ports demo host port comma container port.
It is accessible.
Now the next thing is if you want to review means like when you run the Docker PS right.
So it displays all the data if you want only the few image name, status, ID and ports.
So you can run this command so it provides image names, status container ID and ports filtered output
for that purpose I have put it anyway we have accessed it.
So this is simple.
Okay.
From a specific port we have accessed it and test it.
But important thing is ephemeral port means like a dynamic port from our local host will be allocated
with port 80 of your container.
So that is the important thing.
So docker run hyphen hyphen.
Name my ports demo two.
And this is the docker image.
So we will say docker images and docker run hyphen hyphen name.
And I will just say p and only a container port I will give and I will run it in detached mode.
And this is the Docker image.
So here you can see in this uh in this respective command I am not giving any host port here, only
container port I have given.
Now if I run the command docker PS in the my ports demo two, you can see a IP uh 58 598 is the high
numbered port allocated for us from our desktop, right?
58 598.
So now if we go back here and go here right.
And go here, and if we say localhost and 58 598 and you can see your application is accessible on that
high numbered port.
So if you don't know, like what port you want to assign on your local desktop or 8090, you are not
clear about it.
You can just give hyphen a small p and then 80 and a dynamic port will be allocated.
And that dynamic port.
Using that you will be able to access it.
That is access your application.
So that is about using the, uh, using the specific port, using smaller case P and using a dynamic
port or a ephemeral host port using smaller case P.
Now let's learn about using the capital case P right.
So now let us go ahead and then review these things and implement it in our next lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-35: Docker Compose: DEVELOP WATCH with SYNC + RESTART ===


--- Step-03: Implementation of Docker Multi Port demo ---

Welcome back.
Let's go ahead and then review the demo two which is multi-port nginx with capital hyphen P flag okay.
So here we are going to review the docker file.
And then also review a lot of configuration information and then implement it.
So let us go back to our Visual Studio Code here and go to zero two Docker Files Multi port.
So let us go back to first the nginx conf whatever we have defined which is my custom nginx.conf.
And here you have a server block wherein you are saying listen on 8080 server name is localhost and
you are saying the location where your files are present is in nginx usr share nginx HTML slash app1
and you are going to have the index.html there.
And in the same way, if another listen port is 8081 and which is for slash app two.
And there also you are going to have the index dot HTML.
Now important thing here is let us go back to our uh, index dot HTML, which is which will listen on
port 80.
Default one.
Okay.
And then you have app one index dot HTML, which will be uh present in the usr share nginx HTML app,
one folder where this will listen on 8080 and app two which will listen on 8081.
So now let us review the Docker file.
So we will get a complete picture here.
So we are using the from Nginx Alpine Slim.
And we have set the environmental variables here.
Nginx port one is 8080 and nginx port two is 8081.
And these are the OCI labels.
And here you can see the custom labels if you want.
You can also define the custom labels saying nginx port one is one custom label and nginx port two is
another custom label.
And you are referencing whatever the port values from the Dollar engine export one from our environment
variables and you are installing the curl in your container.
So you so you are going to in your Docker image.
So you are using this APK command.
And after that in your usr share nginx.
HTML.
So in this place you are creating app one and app two directory.
So you have used mkdir hyphen p and then creating two directories for serving static content for app
one and then app two.
So from your local desktop from app one folder you have the index dot HTML which you are copying it
to usr share nginx HTML app one.
And from app two folder you are copying it to app two folder in the nginx and index dot HTML plain index
dot HTML route context index dot HTML.
You are copying it to us share nginx HTML.
So till here static content is copied and now your custom nginx file.
My custom nginx.conf.
You are copying it to etc. nginx conf dot d my custom nginx.conf and you are going to expose both ports.
Nginx port one and port two which is 8080 and 8081.
And by default port 80 will be exposed which will be inherited from the base image.
Now that's about the Docker file.
Now let's come back here and create a Docker image.
Demo 14 docker multi port v1.
So we'll go back here.
And what we will do is we'll come out of zero one docker file single port.
And we'll go to zero two Docker files multi port.
And here you can see all the information is there.
So we'll run the command docker build hyphen t.
And this is the docker image name.
Demo 14 docker multi port v1.
And where is the docker file present in the current directory.
So now let's wait for this docker image to be built.
And once the Docker image is built, if we run the command docker images, we can see the multi-port
Docker image is built and ready for us.
Now we'll go ahead and then run the command docker run and hyphen hyphen.
Name my ports.
Demo three is the container name.
And here we are going to put hyphen capital k s p which means all the ports will be uh, all the ports
will have the dynamic.
All the host ports will be dynamically generated.
Okay.
So now let's say hyphen D is a detached mode.
It is going to run.
And this is the Docker image name.
So let's come back here I'll run the command docker images.
And this is the container name docker run hyphen hyphen name and container name and hyphen capital p
and hyphen d which is going to run in detached mode.
And what is the Docker image we need to run as a container.
So this is the one multi port one with v one.
And now if I run the command docker PS we can see here my ports are.
Demo three is running and you can see it here 555001 is mapping to port 85 5002 is mapping to 8080 and
55003 is mapping to 8081.
So we didn't specify anything here only other than capital case P.
And all the ports are dynamically uh published.
The hyphen P flag.
Capital P flag publishes all exposed ports to random host ports.
So whatever the exposed ports on container, they will be, uh, they will be published to the random
host ports.
So now let us come back here.
These are these are the numbers five five, 001.
Five, five.
002 and five five.
003.
Now let's come back here and, uh.
And access.
Access our application here.
Okay.
Incognito window http colon slash slash localhost colon five.
Five.
001.
And you can see multi-port app three on port 80 from nginx default.
Conf.
So this we are calling it as app three.
And if we go to 255002.
Multi port app one on port 8080.
So this is the one and one more we need to give.
Double five.
002 is over.
003 which is app two on port 8081 right.
So this is app two on port 8081.
This is app one on port 8080.
And this is app three.
On port 80.
So everything we are able to test successfully.
So we have tested that uh, hyphen p capital k, s p flag publishes all exposed ports to random host
ports.
So that part we have successfully tested.
And if you want, we can connect to the container and verify all the files, whatever is present.
So we will go back here and we will say docker exec hyphen I t.
And this is the docker image name docker container name my ports demo three.
And I will say slash bin slash bash or slash sh maybe okay s h and clear.
And we will go here and we will go to usr share nginx and HTML.
And you should see app one, app two folders.
And in app one you can see the files also.
And you can also go to each nginx uh conf dot d.
And you should see the my custom Next corner.
Also present here.
And if netstat is working here, you can run the command netstat lmtp.
And you can see it is listening on nginx is listening on port 80 8081 and 8082.
So we have also successfully connected to the container and also verified.
Now we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
So I will say docker rm hyphen f and dollar docker PS hyphen aq.
So this should delete all the docker containers and docker rmi dollar docker images hyphen q.
This should delete the two docker images, whatever we have created.
So if I run the command docker images, nothing should be present.
So this completes the demo about Docker ports.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
So for additional reference you can also review all these things in detail.


=== Demo-36: Docker Compose: DEVELOP WATCH with SYNC + REBUILD ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Volumes ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker storage.
In that we are going to learn about volume basics.
So let's understand these things in detail.
So volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data by Docker containers.
And we also have something called bind mounts.
Bind mounts are dependent on the directory structure and OS of the host machine.
Volumes are completely managed by Docker but bind mounts.
It's it's completely dependent on the OS we are using.
So let's see this picture.
So we get an idea.
So this is a in the host machine.
This is a container.
And this is our host machine file system.
And in your host machine file system whenever you create a volume it will be some space in your file
system where that volume will get created.
And this volume, this Docker area, whatever the volume related one created, is completely managed
by Docker.
That is about volumes.
But when you talk about Boyne Mounds.
Boyne Mounds are nothing but a specific path in your file system example, you have a file system slash
opt.
So in the opt for a bind mount to your container, you can take slash opt App1.
You can take as a bind mount in your container, but volume means like from your file system, some
path you can take as a storage piece using bind mounts in container, but volumes.
It can take a specific storage, but that is not from from the file system and completely managed by
Docker, which means if it is a bind mount, you can go to that path and add via your host machine or
using your container.
But when you talk about volume, volume will be completely managed inside from the container itself
means like managed by Docker only you can't manage this area separately using the host machine by going
there.
So that's the important thing to remember.
Volumes have several advantages over bind mounts.
Volumes are easier to backup or migrate than bind mounts, so that is one important one.
And you can manage volumes using Docker CLI commands or using Docker API.
In addition to that, volumes work on both Linux and Windows containers, and volumes can be safely
shared among multiple containers, and volumes will have drivers.
So these drivers let you store volumes on remote hosts or even cloud providers.
It will allow us to encrypt the contents of the volumes and also add additional functionality if needed.
So that's all these are topmost advantages, like more and more advantages of using volumes.
Then bind mounts and new volumes can have their content pre-populated by a container.
So even that is possible.
So volumes on Docker desktop have much higher performance than bind mounts from Mac and then windows
host.
Overall, it is all 99.99% cases recommended to use volumes over Bind modes, but we also have dedicated
demos for bind mounts and we are also going to implement them practically.
So if you go to the volume section here, right.
So you have a you can have bind not only volume demos, you can see volume with containers, volumes,
subdirectory, all those things you will have bind mounts and bind mounts read only and volume versus
bind mounts tmp temp file system mounts tmpfs mounts.
So all these demos we are going to implement.
So as we discussed here only volumes.
That doesn't mean we will focus on only volumes.
We also have bind mount demos.
Now let's talk about Docker volume types.
So we have a named volume.
And we also have a anonymous volume so named volumes.
We create a volume with a name.
So you can create it via Docker desktop.
Or you can create via Docker volume.
Create and provide the name of your volume.
Example if you create my vol one.
So that will be created this way and anonymous volumes are creating volumes with dynamically generated
names.
So command is docker volume create.
You don't give any name and a dynamically generated ID will be there for that respective volume.
So overall volumes are recommended for Docker containers.
That is one thing.
And in volumes we have two types named volumes and anonymous volumes.
So these things you can create via your Docker volume command.
And also you can go ahead and then create via Docker Desktop.
So you can go to the volume section here and create a volume and create volumes using Docker Desktop
also.
So this completes the intro about Docker volumes and also Docker volumes versus bind mounts in our next
lecture we will go ahead and then practically implement them.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-37: Docker BuildKit: Buildx CLI, Local and Build Cloud Builders ===


--- Step-02: Manage Docker volumes with CLI and Docker desktop ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker volume basics.
So this is section 15 or demo 15.
So we will create Docker volumes using CLI to create a volume using CLI command is docker volume create
and to list volumes it is docker volume ls.
And to inspect the volume it is docker volume inspect.
So let's go here to our terminal.
Clear.
Come out of it and we will say Docker volume create and my volume one.
And this should create a volume for us.
Once the volume is created docker volume ls.
And you can see my volume one is created and it is using the local driver.
And now if we want to inspect docker volume, inspect my volume one and it will provide.
It is created on so and so date using local driver.
And this is the mount path var lib docker my volume one data.
So there the content is going to be present and name is my volume one.
And the scope is local.
And if you want to see the same thing via Docker desktop, come back here.
And in the volume section you can see my volume one here.
And you can click on this store data.
You can explore here.
Container in use.
If it is used you can explore here.
And if you want to export those things also you can export using these options okay.
So for now all those are not needed for us.
Now the next thing is create a anonymous volume.
So how to create a anonymous volume.
If you don't provide any name it will create a anonymous volume.
So we will say Docker volume and then create will not provide any name here like space my volume one
two something like that.
And it created a anonymous volume.
If I run the command docker volume ls.
So you can see an anonymous volume with name automatically generated random ID.
It created a volume.
So now if you go back to the Docker desktop so you can see an anonymous volume is created here okay.
Whose name is dynamically generated.
So that's about anonymous volume right.
And now you can create Docker volumes using Docker desktop.
So let's do that.
Now we'll go here and click on create in the Docker desktop.
In the volumes section I'll click on create and I will say my volume two.
And then click on create.
And it is created.
And I will also create a anonymous volume without giving any name.
If I click on create it creates a anonymous volume.
So you can see this is the anonymous volume it created just six seconds before.
So we have created named volumes and anonymous volumes using docker CLI docker volume command and also
using Docker desktop.
Now remove the unused docker volumes with docker volume.
Prune command okay, prune all unused Docker volumes, including named volumes not used by any container.
You can use Docker volume prune hyphen a or docker volume prune.
So anything is fine.
So let's try the command.
So these volumes whatever the four volumes we have created these are currently not used by any of the
containers.
So what we will do is we will run the command docker volume.
And then I'll say prune.
And it is saying this will remove anonymous local volumes not used by at least one container.
So it is only going to remove anonymous local volumes.
It is not going to remove named volumes.
So that is fine.
I will say yes.
And if I say docker volume ls only anonymous volumes two anonymous volumes, which has the dynamic names.
So that got removed and my volume one and my volume two are still present.
Okay.
Now I will say docker volume prune Prone hyphen a right.
This will remove.
This will remove all local volumes not used by at least one container.
So I will say yes.
And my volume one and my volume two also removed.
So if you go here, nothing is present in volumes section.
Or we can run the command docker volume ls and we don't see any volumes present.
So whatever we have created, all those things we have cleaned up.
Now this is not recommended.
Command using Docker volume prune hyphen a because it will remove all unused volumes including the named
volumes.
If by any chance they are needed for us then it will be a trouble.
So we need to carefully use this prune commands.
And when we talk about removing docker volumes with rm command docker volume rm, we can do that.
Just create one simple volume now right?
So we have created a my volume six.
If I say docker volume ls, my volume six is present here.
And now you can run the command rm My volume six.
And that should be removed.
Let's also create one more volume, which is, uh, anonymous volume create.
And now you can say Docker volume ls, you have two volumes.
I will say docker volume rm and my volume six.
And this should remove my volume six.
If I say docker volume ls, this anonymous volume is still there.
So I'll copy the name of it.
And I will say docker volume rm and provide the name.
And if I say docker volume volume and ls and you should see nothing is present here.
So that is about Docker volumes on a very high level okay.
Means like all the basics of volumes we have learned.
So we will go and then learn more about them in detail by using them in containers and by mapping them
in a read only mode in our containers.
So all those things we are going to learn in upcoming demos.
So I'll see you in the next lecture or next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-38: Docker BuildKit: Build Multi-platform Docker Images ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to use of Docker volumes in containers ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about volume mount options.
So one option is hyphen hyphen mount flag.
And the other option is hyphen V flag.
So both the things we are going to use and learn about or implement them practically.
So when running the docker run command itself we can provide hyphen hyphen mount and provide the docker
volume name, and also in which path of the container that need to be mounted when creating the container
itself.
So let us see what exactly hyphen hyphen mount provides.
This flag provides for us.
So it is the newer mount syntax for explicit volume mounting.
And it it is more verbose and explicit.
So you can clearly see here hyphen hyphen mount.
And you say the type is volume.
And source is my volume 101.
So that is your volume name you are giving here.
And target is in in your container.
At what path this volume need to be mounted?
I said slash my apps so it is explicitly in detail, very verbose and better for complex scenarios requiring
detailed configuration.
So it is very clear for us to even read and provides clarity with key value pairs.
So that's the mount flag.
And you can see the syntax here provide.
The type is volume and source is provide the volume name.
Here in target you provide container path where it need to be mounted.
So that is about hyphen hyphen mount.
Also see the hyphen V path here in hyphen V path.
If you see it here, you provide the volume name colon slash.
My apps my apps is the place where in our container we are going to mount it.
So this volume is mounting in this path in our container.
My volume 102 is mounting in our container at the path slash my apps.
So this is a shorthand format or a quick means like a simple format for creating the volumes and then
mapping it with the container when creating the container.
Concise but can be ambiguous also, so does not support all options.
Hyphen.
Hyphen mount is always recommended, and it is preferred only for simplicity and quick setups.
Purpose.
But ideally hyphen.
Hyphen mount is recommended.
Here you can see you provide hyphen V with volume name colon container path.
That is all.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement these two options in this respective demo.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-39: Docker Build Cloud: Remote Builds using Cloud Builder ===


--- Step-02: Use Docker volumes with containers using docker run and --mount and -v ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 16 or section 16 where we are going to mount the volumes in container using docker run
command itself.
So we are going to create a container using hyphen hyphen mount flag.
So using the docker run command itself a volume will be created and that volume will be mounted in our
container.
So the command here is Docker run and provide the name of your container.
So this is a container name which I am saying volume demo one.
And I am providing hyphen p.
I am mapping the host port 8090 to the container port 80.
And then these things are nothing but hyphen D.
We are going to create a container in a detached mode so that other commands will be run.
Terminal will be freed up for running other commands.
And in addition to that we are using the nginx Alpine Alpine slim image here.
Now the important thing here is this is the one which we need to focus on.
So we are providing hyphen hyphen mount flag with type equal to volume and source equal to volume name,
which is my volume one zero, one and target equal to slash my apps, which means slash my apps will
be the directory in which the directory in the container in which this volume will be mounted.
So you can run in this format, right.
Or in a single line format.
So if it is windows or CMD, if you face any issue with this type of format, you can run the single
line format.
So I just removed the slashes and put everything in the single line.
So I'll try to take this or this.
Anything is fine.
Both is same.
So we'll go here and run the command and let's see what happens.
Right.
So let's wait for that.
So it didn't find the nginx alpine slim Docker image locally.
So it downloaded it and it created a container for us.
So first I will say Docker images.
And you can see Nginx Alpine Slim is downloaded.
And now if I run the command docker PS so you can see nginx is running whose container name is volume
demo one and it is up and running.
Now the next thing here is we need to verify the stuff.
One is a connect to the container and run the command df hyphen h to see what is there there.
Okay, so we will go to docker exec hyphen I t volume demo one and slash bin slash s h.
And if I run the command df hyphen h.
So you can see slash my apps is mounted here and it is.
Taking the data means like it is taking the size from my local desktop 58.4 GB used is 2.9 GB and available
is this much.
So this is the slash my apps mounted here we can go to slash my apps and here nothing is there.
So I can say uh echo and then Kalyan uh create a file here.
Just say Kalyan and say a, b c dot txt.
And it is a read write format.
Ideally we should find the a, b, c dot txt present here which has the kolion.
Now let's come back here to our Docker desktop once.
So let me come here and we are in Docker desktop.
So let me my volume 101 is the thing.
You can see its status.
It is in use.
Let me open that volume.
And inside that you can see you have created a a, b, c dot txt and you can see that a b c dot txt
and you can also read the content from that file.
So container in use it is used by volume demo one container.
So if you want we can try and create one more file here okay.
So echo and I will say ready.
And so df dot txt cat df dot txt.
And now if you come back to the Docker desktop here and go to volumes and try to open df dot txt which
is having the ready.
So which means we tried to browse the content present in this volume and we created that content using
the container we have created.
We connected to that container and then created it.
So let me exit came out of the container.
Now let us go back here right.
And go ahead and then inspect the container mounts.
Container name is volume demo one.
So how to get the container name.
If you say Docker PS you can see volume demo one container is running.
So I'll copy this name and I will say docker inspect and then volume demo one.
And here if you go to the mounts section right.
So we are going to the mount section here let us go up and you can see in the mounts you have the volume.
My volume 101 is mounted in this container.
And this is the source.
And this is the destination source is on the host machine.
It is present here and on the destination right which is slash my apps in the container.
That's about mounts.
And if you want you can also go to Docker Desktop here and go to containers.
And this is the volume demo one container and its logs and you can inspect all the information here.
You can click on mounts and you can read the mounts information here in detail.
Mounts volume.
My volume 101 is the source and target is slash my apps.
And if you want to run any commands inside that container, inside that container you can also run it
here.
You can go to slash my apps and you can run the command df hyphen h.
And if you want you can run the command ls.
All these things you can run from here also.
And these are the files location.
And if you go to my apps you can see these two files are there.
And you can see it very clearly.
Here it is a volume.
It is showing it very clearly.
For us it is a volume.
Right.
So that is about uh creating a container using volumes with containers using hyphen, hyphen mount flag.
Now we will also do the same thing with hyphen v flag.
So here docker run and the container name we are going to give is volume demo two and port is 8091 for
my local host means like my host port and container port is 80 and I am going to use my volume 102 maps
to slash my apps inside the container.
It is going to run in detached mode and then I am using the nginx Alpine Slim.
So I will use the single line format and then run it here.
Right.
So let me run it.
And if I say docker PS I can see the container is created now volume demo two.
And if you want we can connect to that container and also verify either via command line or via a Docker
desktop.
So we will go to volume demo two.
And if we go to the uh inspect.
And if we go to the mounts so we can see it here, my apps is mounted here and its volume name is my
volume 102.
And if you want to click on volumes so you can click on volumes, there are no specific volumes specified
here in the mounts.
You can see we have mounted it this way.
My volume one.
Zero two.
And now let's come back to XTC.
We have connected to the container.
If I run the command df h.
You can see slash my apps is present here.
And in addition to that, if we go to the files and you can see slash my apps is a volume right.
Volume mounted at slash my apps.
And if you want to go to volumes also you can see my volume 102 is in use.
And then there are no data currently present inside it.
And it is used by container volume demo zero two which can be accessed on 8091 port.
So that's about it.
Okay.
So that's about connecting to means like creating a volume using docker run command with hyphen V flag.
So now let us go ahead and then clean up these containers and volumes.
So we'll go here we will say Docker PS two.
Two containers are running docker rm hyphen f dollar docker PS hyphen AQ should remove those containers.
Okay.
Containers are removed.
Docker rmi dollar.
Docker images hyphen q and images will be removed.
So if you say docker images, nothing should be there.
But if you run docker volume ls volumes will be still present even though container when creating the
container volumes got created.
But when deleting the containers volumes are still there because those are persisted.
Volumes means like we need to ensure that we go and then manually delete them.
So you can run the command docker volume rm and then delete this way.
Or you can go to Docker Desktop and select those volumes and then delete them.
Any anything is fine.
So I have deleted volume 101 and then 102.
So this completes the demo about learning hyphen, hyphen mount flag and hyphen v flag.
When running the docker run command to mount the volumes to the container.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.


=== Demo-40: Docker Multi-stage Builds ===


--- Step-01: Introduction to populate data in volumes using containers ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to focus on two important things from Docker volumes perspective.
One is how to populate data in Docker volumes using containers, and the other is mount volumes with
read only option for even the hyphen hyphen mount flag, and also for the hyphen V flag for both the
things how to mount a volume in read only mode.
Also, we are going to learn.
So let's start with understanding about the first item here.
So what happens to data present in Docker container?
Default data from Docker image when a volume is mounted at the same path.
So this is very, very important uh thing to know from Docker volumes perspective.
Why?
Because the behavior will be very advantageous when we talk about volumes.
And when we go to bind mounts it is going to be different.
So we need to know what is the advantage of using volumes over bind mounts with this specific feature.
So let's talk about that.
You have a Docker image something like a, b, c, v one and which is a simple nginx image and it contains
some content at usr share nginx.
HTML.
Let's consider the content as all these files whatever you are seeing right.
So in this location you have it and you have built that as a Docker image.
And in the Docker image you have all this content.
Now when a container is created using this Docker image, right with new volume mounted at the same
path, what will happen.
Right.
So this is the even the volume, whatever we are creating also we are mounting at the same path.
And the behavior here is the static content from the Docker container, which is created from the Docker
image is copied to the volume automatically.
In simple terms, there is no data loss.
The volume contains the initial data from the Docker image.
So that's the advantage of using Docker volumes.
So this highlights the benefit of using volumes for data persistence in Docker, but in bind mounts.
So we have a dedicated demo for that.
But for relevance I am trying to tell in bind mounts it is not going to happen that way.
So whatever is present, whatever is initially present in the Docker image, when we create a container,
that data right will be obscured.
Means like we are not going to see that data, only the specific bind mount whatever we are going to
copy, whether it is empty or with the data, whatever it is present.
So only that data will be present or that empty bind mount will be present.
And if you try to bind mount with usr share nginx.
HTML inside that folder nothing will be present after bind mount.
So that is the disadvantage of using bind mounts if provided.
If we have existing content already present in Docker image, that will be merged with the current content
in the volume.
Even if a volume has a content in it.
So that is one thing.
And if it is a new volume, all that content, whatever is present on the image will be copied to the
new volume.
So that's the important thing and advantage of using volumes.
Now let's go ahead and then see the options about mount volume read only option.
Right.
So you have hyphen hyphen mount flag with read only access.
How we are going to do that with uh you just need to provide a read only here.
So this is the complete syntax source is equal to volume name and also target equal to container path
where you want to mount it.
And comma you just need to say read only when you are using hyphen hyphen mount flag.
And when you are using the hyphen v.
So you just need to say r o.
So colon r o.
So you can see the complete template here right.
Our syntax here volume underscore name colon container path colon row will be read only access.
So that respective volume will be mounted as read only.
So this completes the introduction about what we are going to learn in this demo.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement it.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Populate volume with data using container ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 17 or section 17 where we are going to populate Docker volumes with the data.
What is present in the Docker image right when creating a container.
So let us see those things now.
So this is a simple Docker image with nginx static content.
So where we have the docker file.
So let us go back to our Visual Studio Code here.
And we are in section 17.
And in Docker files section you have the Docker file.
So which is using the simple nginx Alpine slim as the base Docker image.
These are standard OCI labels.
And we are going to copy the content from static content folder to the usr share nginx.
HTML.
So in the static content folder you have app one index dot HTML, regular index dot HTML, and file
one to file five.
So all these things are present.
And these we are going to copy to our usr share nginx.
HTML.
And that is what we are going to do when building a Docker image.
So now let's come back here and go ahead and then build a Docker image.
So we'll go back to our terminal here.
And we will go to the section 17 and in Docker files.
Right.
So you have the Docker file here and static content folder we'll say Docker build hyphen t.
And we'll provide the name as my nginx static v1.
And where is the docker file present in the current directory which is dot.
And let's wait for the Docker image to be built.
So if you say Docker images so you can see that my nginx static Docker image is built now.
And inside that we have copied the static content in usr share nginx.
HTML location.
So let's test it without volumes first okay so now we are going to run the Docker container and verify
it okay.
So whether the content is present in it or not.
So here we are not going to use any volumes first okay.
So docker run hyphen hyphen name.
So some any name for that respective container.
And hyphen p host port and container port run it in detached mode.
And this is the nginx uh docker image colon tag.
So let me run this now.
And now if I say docker PS you can see our container is running here.
So let me go here and access it.
So we'll go to new incognito window.
And 8090 is the port.
So I will say 90.
And we can see here Docker volumes demo.
So you have this.
You have the file one.
Back to file two.
Back file three back file four back file five.
All the content is copied there.
And in addition to that you also have something called app one slash index dot HTML, even that one.
Also, we have here hosted on that respective thing and if you want we can also connect docker exec
hyphen I t and this is the container right.
And slash bin slash.
And we'll go to user inside container.
So if you try to run the command hostname inside container it will give you the container ID.
Now we will go to usr share nginx.
HTML.
And you can see all the files are present even in app one you have the index dot HTML.
So let us come out of this.
Now we have successfully built a docker image and verified the docker image.
There is a lot of content present in that Docker image.
We have created a container and then verified it.
Now we are going to populate a volume using container, which means we are going to create a Docker
container with volume mounted to that using hyphen hyphen mount flag so you can see it here.
Docker run hyphen hyphen name and container name is volume demo one and port is 809188090 of my local
host or local desktop is used here for the previous container.
So I'm using 8091 colon container port is 80 and hyphen hyphen mount I am saying and type is volume
and source is my volume 103.
So my volume 103 is the volume name I am giving and target where I am mapping it usr share nginx.
HTML.
So there I am mapping it and hyphen d.
I am going to run it in detached mode.
And this is my docker image which I have just now built.
So now what is the expected here when I run this right.
So you can run a single line format or a multi line format, anything is same.
So I will try to run the single line format first and then now you can see Docker PS and you have the,
uh, volume demo, one related Docker container created.
And if I say Docker volume ls my volume 103 also created as part of this docker run command.
Now the next thing is if we go inside this you can verify the content should be present there.
That means like whatever the content is there that should not be gone away.
So in volume demo one.
So if you go to usr share nginx.
HTML and you can see all the content is present.
And if I run the df hyphen h you can see it is a volume mount usr share nginx.
HTML which means whatever the current content which my docker image has when creating a container with
the new volume at the same path, nothing is removed.
So existing all the content is present as is.
Now other way to verify this is so we can go here and uh, We can go to our Docker desktop and we can
go to my volume 103.
And here in volume you can see all the content directly.
App one file.
One file.
Two.
Five three.
All the things now you can see are copied to the volume.
So if you go to volumes again my volume 103.
And you can see the complete content here.
So that means whatever the content present inside the Docker image, when creating a container with
a volume, the content is copied to the volume.
So till here it is clear.
Right now we will go to the containers here and we will go to this volume demo one.
And we will go to uh inspect Bind mounts Exec.
And we will go to files here.
So this is the files tab.
And here if you go to right usr share and inside that usr share nginx.
And inside that you can see HTML is a volume.
And in that volume you can see all this content is currently present from the volume.
Now, if you see the other container, which is this one base container from which it has created the
thing, right.
So from which it has, uh, uh, from which Docker image it has created this container.
So if you try to see the usr share nginx.
HTML here it is just from the uh container file system itself.
So inside the HTML this is present in the container file system itself.
But when you see the other one it for volume demo one, you can see it is present because you have mounted
the volume.
The content is stored currently in the volume, which is my volume 103.
So we have successfully reviewed the thing.
So if you want you can also review the volume mount information here.
So by running the Docker inspect format, JSON dot mounts and the entire volume information you can
review using these commands.
We can also access our application and also verify on 8091 port.
So you can see file one file two, file three, file four.
All are present here.
Even if you want, we can also go here and verify our index dot HTML in app one.
Also, everything is present as expected that our final observation is all static content is accessible,
confirming that the volume has been populated correctly.
So if you go to the volume also you can see all the content is populated now.
So now what we are going to do is with hyphen V flag right.
So either hyphen V or hyphen hyphen mount anything is fine.
But what we are going to do is we are going to use another simple base nginx alpine slim image from
our Docker Hub.
And then we are going to mount my volume 103, which means already a existing volume which we have here.
So this is the existing volume.
We are not creating a new volume.
We are mounting the existing volume to a new container which is getting created using a base engine
x Docker image.
So let's see what happens.
Right?
So now this is docker run.
And the name of the container is volume demo three port.
It is going to use on my host or on my desktop is 8093 and container port is 80.
Here I am going to mount a existing volume on my wall 103 and I am also ensuring that the content present
in volume, I am going to map it to the, uh, container related path which is usr share nginx.
HTML.
I am going to run it in detached mode and also ensure that I am using the nginx alpine slim base image,
so we can copy this or this and run the command here.
So let me come back and run it.
And now if I say docker PS you can see volume demo three is present.
Now we will say docker exec it and volume demo three and slash bin slash.
And if we go to slash usr share nginx slash HTML.
So we can see we have all the files present here.
So clear means like for this respective path volume is mapped.
So that is the key thing here.
If we run df hyphen h.
Also for this respective path volume is mapped.
You can also verify the same thing via Docker desktop.
Also we will go to containers and we will go to volume demo three.
And we'll go to files and we'll go to usr share and we'll go to nginx.
And you can see HTML is mapped with a volume.
And there you have all this content.
If we want we can also access our application and also verify right.
So let's go back here.
Right.
We'll go here and uh new incognito window.
And I will say localhost and I'll say 8093 and my application is accessible.
Okay, now let me close it.
And if you this volume, whatever you have mounted is in read write format, which means you will be
able to create new files here.
Right.
So it's a write access is present for us.
So we'll try to create a new file dot HTML.
So what we'll go what we'll do here is so we'll try to we are already inside the container.
Let me exit and we'll try to connect to the container one more time.
Docker exec it volume demo three slash bin slash.
And we'll go to usr share nginx slash HTML.
And here I'll say cp index dot HTML to Kalyan dot HTML.
And if you go to the volume here now right.
So if you go to the volumes and my volume 103, you can see Kalyan dot HTML is created just five seconds
before.
So that is the important thing here.
Now we have successfully created a file because it is in read write mode.
Default is read write mode.
Volume will mount in read write mode.
So we are able to add files inside that okay.
So if you want we can also access that one.
So we can go here and say 8093 slash Kalyan dot HTML and eight zero naught eight three.
It should be nine three and our application should be accessible.
So that's about uh, using the uh, mounting and existing volume, mounting an existing volume to the
Docker container and verifying the data present inside it, and also adding some content inside that
and then accessing it via browser and then verifying it, and finally mounting a volume as a read only
option.
So let's also test those things in our next lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-03: Verify read-only mount point using --mount and -v flags ---

Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going to mount our docker volume as read only for our container.
To do so we are going to say docker run hyphen hyphen name and provide the container name as volume.
Demo four.
And then port we are going to use is 8094 on my local desktop and container port is 80 and mount we
are.
We are using the hyphen hyphen mount flag and then use source is my volume 103, which is already present
and populated with data, and it is going to mount at location usr share nginx.
HTML.
But here we are going to do it with a read only.
So that is the important thing.
And we are using the base nginx image here.
So let me run this.
Either this or this anything is fine.
So we can run any of the command.
So based on if it is a windows OS or something.
And if this format is not working you can use the single line format.
Okay.
Now let's come back here and run the command.
And now if I run the command docker PS so we can see volume demo four is created.
And now if I go to Docker exec hyphen I t and I'll say volume demo four and then slash bin slash.
And if I go to usr share nginx and then HTML and if I say df hyphen h.
So it is mounted perfectly right.
So this is a mount point.
And now here I will say what I will say is copy index dot HTML two ready dot HTML and see what happens.
So it very clearly states that can't create ready dot HTML because a read only file system, it is a
read only file system and it cannot create any files there.
So that is what we have successfully verified.
Now let's come out of it.
And if you want using that 8094 port, we can access our application.
So we will say 8094.
And our application should be accessible.
So that's about using hyphen.
Hyphen mount flag instead of hyphen hyphen mount.
We are going to use hyphen v and then test it.
So in hyphen hyphen mount we have set the flag here as a read only right.
So here you are going to use row right.
So row to mount the volume in read only format for a container.
So remaining things are same.
So here we are going to use the container name as volume demo file.
And port is 8095.
And my wall 103 which is an existing volume.
We are mounting to this respective container with read only format at path usr share nginx.
HTML.
We are running it in detached mode, and we are also going to use the default nginx alpine slim image.
So let me run this and see.
And if we go to Docker PS and we'll go to the docker exec hyphen I t and volume demo file and slash
bin slash.
And I'll go to usr share nginx slash HTML.
And here if I say cp index dot HTML to the Ida dot HTML.
And here also you can see can't create Ida dot HTML read only file system.
So very clearly even with hyphen v with r as the option.
Also it is mounted as a read only file system.
So this completes the demo about two important things.
One is populating Docker volumes using containers is one thing, and second thing is also mounting the
volumes in a read only format.
So that's the two things we have successfully learned as part of this respective demo.
And we are not going to clean up the, uh, volumes here.
Okay.
So mainly my wall 103 we are going to use in the next, uh, demo.
Right.
Means like in the next demo.
18.
So for that purpose volume, we are not going to clean up so we can clean up docker rm hyphen f dollar
docker PS hyphen hyphen a q.
So this should remove all the containers okay.
And in addition to that docker rmi and docker images hyphen q.
So you can also remove the docker images.
But if you run docker volume ls your volume will be present.
We are not cleaning up volume as part of this demo.
In our next demo we will see that.
I will see you in the next lecture, our next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to mount a docker volume sub-directory ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to mount a subdirectory as a volume to our container.
Right.
So let's understand that a little bit more.
So what is mounting a subdirectory and what is the advantages of using it.
So let us go back to our Docker desktop here and understand a little bit about it.
So if you go to volumes.
So in the previous demo whatever the My Vol 103 we have created, we didn't remove that or clean up
because we want to use that in this respective demo.
Now this my Vol 103.
Here you have a subdirectory inside it which is called app one.
And inside that you have the index dot HTML.
So you can mount means like in your app container in your application.
If you want only this app, one directory to be mounted, you can mount it instead of mounting the entire
volume.
So that is about mounting a subdirectory from a volume to our container.
So now let us come back here.
So what are the advantages of using it.
It enables granular control over which parts of the volume are accessible to the container, so it is
useful for sharing specific data without exposing the entire volume content.
So we can from security perspective, it will be very helpful if we want to use what part of data to
our container, only that part of that respective volume can be mounted, not the entire volume.
Right now let us come back here.
So here what we are going to do is we are going to create a Docker container with name as volume demo
zero six with port 8096, etcetera, etcetera.
But important thing here is in hyphen.
Hyphen mount.
You can see in source name is my volume 103, which is an existing volume and target is usr share nginx.
HTML app1.
And you can also use the field a additional flag which is volume, sub path and provide.
What is that path which is app1.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement how to mount a docker volume sub-directory ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 18, where we are going to learn to mount a volume subdirectory to a container.
So we are going to use the volume sub path flag for that okay.
So now let us go ahead and then verify if I have the existing volume which we have created as part of
previous demo.
So we will say Docker volume ls and my volume 103 should be present.
So that is the primary prerequisite for this demo.
And after that we will go ahead.
And then uh we will go to the Docker desktop here right.
And go to the volumes my volume 103.
And inside the volume, whether we have the app one directory or not, we are verifying.
So it is present.
Now mount a volume sub directory using hyphen.
Hyphen mount flag.
So the command here is docker run and the name of the container is volume demo zero six or demo six
and port is 8096.
We are going to use and container port is 80, host port is 8096.
And here you can see hyphen.
Hyphen mount and type is volume.
Source is my volume 103.
My vol 103 and target is usr share nginx.
HTML app one.
And here in the volume sub path we are saying app one as the folder.
So this app one folder we are providing and we are going to run it in detached mode.
And we are using the base nginx alpine slim docker image.
One important point here to learn here is ideally this volume sub path is also not needed till here
till slash app one.
If you use automatically only app one related thing also only app one related till app one it will be
mounted as a volume in our container.
This volume sub path primarily used for docker compose.
The equivalent node also specified here specifies the sub directory within the volume to mount.
So as of, so and so version is primarily used in volume.
Sub path is primarily used in Docker compose.
In Docker run, simply specifying the target till the path wherever you need is sufficient.
So that is the important thing to remember.
So you can use a single line format or a readable multi-line format.
So I will try to use multi-line format here and run the command.
And now once it is run, if I say docker PS and we can see the volume demo zero six is running.
So I will say docker exec hyphen I t volume, demo zero, demo six and slash bin slash.
And here we will go to usr share nginx.
HTML inside the container.
And you should see app.
One folder is mounted here.
And if you come out of it and if I say df hyphen h and you can see till app one, it is mounted.
And here in app one you should see the index dot HTML and a cat.
Index dot HTML.
So this is the app one.
Okay.
Thing.
So this is an.
HTML regular index dot HTML which is a nginx HTML.
And if you go to app one and say cat index dot HTML, this is our uh index dot HTML, which is coming
from our volume.
So this is the one uh, where is it?
This one.
This is the one which we are which we are seeing it, uh, here.
Okay.
So now one thing to remember here is in usr share nginx HTML, you have the default nginx HTML, whatever
is present from our nginx alpine slim image.
But we do not have uh, we do not have any volume related things here.
Only app one here inside the HTML app one is the thing which is mounted from our my wall.
Uh, 103 if you say df hyphen h.
Also you can see usr share nginx HTML app one.
So here.
So now if you go here and try to access our application also in new incognito window and localhost 8096.
If you try the root context, which is default nginx, index.html will be displayed.
So whatever it is present in usr nginx HTML.
So this is the one which is displayed.
Good.
And if we try to access slash app one slash index.html, this should be coming from our volume.
Whatever we have mounted.
See it is coming from our volume.
And in the subdirectory slash app one.
So that's about mounting a subdirectory inside the volume to our container.
Now we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
Let's go ahead and then remove the Docker container.
Uh and also volumes everything we are going to remove.
So we'll come out of this container.
We'll say docker rm hyphen f and f and dollar docker PS hyphen a q.
And this should remove all the containers running on my local desktop.
Docker RMI.
Dollar.
Docker images.
Hyphen q.
This should remove all the docker images present in my local desktop, and these two commands we need
to use at caution if we have anything.
Also, all those things will be removed.
Instead of that, if you want to clean up only the things, whatever you need, you can use their container
IDs or image IDs or image names and container names to remove them.
So if we say docker volume ls so we can say this is present my volume 103.
So I will say docker volume rm my vol 103.
And that also removed.
So now if we go to the Docker desktop here and in containers nothing is there images nothing is there.
And in volumes also nothing is there.
So this completes the demo which is uh, mounting a Docker volume subdirectory to our container.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Bind Mounts ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about bind mounts in Docker storage.
So what are these bind mounts.
So if you see here in the picture.
So bind mounts are nothing but a file system path in your Docker host.
And then that file system path will be mounted inside your container.
So let's talk about that on a high level.
So when you use a bind mount, a file or directory on the host machine is mounted into a container.
So bind mounts have limited functionality compared to volumes.
So out of 199% cases it is recommended to use Docker volumes, then bind mounts and the file or directory
is referenced by its absolute path on the host machine.
So in the host machine at a specific file system path, if you want to mount that file system path into
your container, you can do that using bind mounts.
The file or directory does not need to exist on the Docker host already.
By contrast, when you use a volume in new directory is created within Docker storage directory on the
host machine and a docker manages the directory contents.
So completely bind mounts are different from volumes, so volumes are completely managed by Docker itself
in the Docker storage directory.
So that's about bind mounts on a high level.
Let's go ahead and then practically implement it so that we will understand it in detail.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Bind Mounts ---

Welcome back.
We are in section 19 our demo 19 Docker bind mounts.
So we are going to mount a directory on host machine to a container using bind mount concepts in Docker.
So first let's prepare the host directory with static content.
So we will go here and in we will go to the section 19 which is Docker bind mounts.
And here you will find the folder my files folder.
We will go to my files folder.
And inside that you will find the static content folder and where you have the complete static content.
In my files you have the static content.
And in that you have in app one directory index dot HTML.
In static content directory you have file 152535455 and index dot HTML, same as our previous demos.
The content is same.
Okay, but we have created a my files directory and we went inside my files directory CD to my files.
That is the important thing.
Now we from the My Files directory, we are going to run the command with the, uh bind mount.
Okay.
So with the mount type as bind.
Okay.
So let's review the command so we will understand it in detail.
Docker run a name of the container is bind demo one and we are going to use the host port is 8091 and
container port is 80.
And we are going to run it in detached mode.
And we are using the nginx alpine slim base docker image.
Now let's go to our important one which is our mount point okay so hyphen hyphen mount.
And earlier the type is volume.
And now we are using bind.
So bind means we are going to use the bind mount concept here.
And in the source you are saying present working directory slash static content.
So dollar PWD is your present working directory command.
So if you see here right.
So if you see here in the terminal you are in my files folder.
So that is the present working directory which will give the complete path here.
Okay.
Right.
So this complete path will be provided present working directory slash static content.
So this is the one it is going to take which is present in my file.
So that's the reason you should be in my files directory for running this docker run command.
Okay.
So you should be in this my files directory to run this command.
So dollar present working directory slash static content and the target where you are going to mount
it in your container usr share nginx.
HTML.
So let's go ahead and then run this command now.
And nginx alpine image is not there.
It downloaded and it created a container for us.
So we'll run the command docker PS and bind demo.
One container is running for us.
Now we will go here and then connect to the container and verify the stuff Docker exec hyphen I t and
bind demo one and slash bin slash sh.
And if I say df hyphen h.
And you can see here.
So this is the one usr share nginx.
HTML is a mounted as a run host mark usr see run host mark users.
So that is what.
Earlier all these things you can see dev Sda1 dev SDA.
So like this it is there.
But here it is a different file system.
Run host mark users.
Okay.
And if you want you can also run the command df hyphen h grep HTML also will give you the same thing.
So we are in the container and that is good.
Next thing is we are going to create a file to verify whether we whether it is a uh, read write format
or not.
So first thing is verify here in your my files in your whatever is present here is mapped in your container
currently.
So whatever is present in your local desktop in your course here.
Right in this section.
This is mapped now inside the container.
If I run the command right.
Uh, if I run the command cp index dot HTML copy to Kalyan dot HTML, that file should be displayed
here automatically because your local directory is mounted in your container.
So let me run this command.
So we'll go to usr share ingenix.
First we'll go there nginx HTML.
And here you can see all these files are there I will say CP index dot HTML to Kalyan dot HTML.
Now Kalyan dot HTML file is created here, which means in your local.
Also you can see Kalyan dot HTML is created.
So which means you can add any file there.
And you can see that directly in your uh local desktop.
Or you can create one more file here.
Okay.
So I will say copy and paste And I will just say this as something like some ready dot HTML and see
what happens.
Okay.
And if you see here you can see ready dot HTML is directly available in the container.
So if you want we can go here and incognito window and localhost 8091 is the port.
And if I access ready dot HTML it should be accessible immediately.
And in my local itself, if I try to create some copy and then paste and I'll try to create something
called data dot HTML, okay.
Something like that.
Okay.
And obviously if you go to the container and verify it is it should be present.
See the dot HTML.
And if I access it via browser also it should be accessible right.
So it is accessible and in data dot HTML I can go here.
And I will just say something like uh a b c d something in that HTML file.
And if I try to refresh that here, see a b, c, d came here automatically.
So that's about it.
I will try to remove these files we don't need.
We are moving out of the context.
I will remove the those two things which is ready dot HTML and either dot HTML we learned means like
whatever we add inside the container.
We can see it in the local desktop.
Whatever we add in the local desktop, we can see it in the container and access it via browser.
So point is clear here.
So let me close this and other files also we can access.
You can see our application is accessible and it is working.
So bind Mount is working without any issues.
So we have done the mount point verification and we have done the data integrity verification.
So means like creating a new file to verify whether read write access is enabled or not.
You have accessed them via browser and also verified it if you want.
You can also access your dot HTML.
Also, we have access to ready and data, so this is also accessible.
Now let me close this and if you want to inspect the container, you can inspect those things.
But we will try to do the inspection using a Docker desktop.
So we will go to volumes and nothing is present in images.
Nginx image is downloaded for this.
And in containers you can see bin demo one is the container.
So I will try to open the container here.
And here are the container logs.
And in the inspect section right.
So we will go to mounts.
And in the mounts you can see type is bind and source.
You can see this complete path.
You can see the complete path here till static content because of you have used the present working
directory slash static content.
So the complete path is here and target is usr share nginx.
HTML.
And now we will also go to bind mounts.
And you can see the bind mounts clearly from the host usr so-and-so so-and-so path, static content
and destination.
Also, you can see it here.
So that that's about using hyphen.
Hyphen mount to create a, uh, means like a mount to the, uh, mount our local directory to a container
using bind mount concept.
Okay, now the next thing here is we are going to use the hyphen V flag.
So it's same like you will go to your my files directory.
Right.
And there is a typo here.
Let me refresh this page one more time and go to that step 3.1.
And you should find that here 3.1.
So go to CD my files and run this docker run command and docker run name of the container is bind.
Demo two and port is 8092 from our local desktop.
And 80 is the container port.
And you can see the volume hyphen V right and present working directory slash static content colon target
is usr share nginx.
HTML and run it in detached mode and the container is nginx.
Alpine slim.
So when we run it.
So let me run it and it should create a docker PS it should create a bind.
Demo two.
Now we'll go directly to the Docker desktop and verify it.
Okay.
So we will go to containers.
And this is the bind demo two.
And in the inspect section mounts you can see this is the type is bind.
And this is the complete path.
Till my file static content and destination is usr share nginx.
HTML read write mode true and propagation is r private.
Okay that is fine.
Now we will go to the bind modes and we can see the things very clearly how it is mounted from the host
to the container.
And if you want you can also run the command df hyphen h inside the container.
And you can see usr share nginx.
HTML mapped to our host.
The path here.
Okay.
So whatever you see here you don't worry about this key.
Important thing is it is mapping to this location exactly in our local desktop, so that is about it.
If you want, we can also access this application on uh localhost uh 8092.
Right.
And our application is accessible.
And if you want we can also go here and go to the, uh here.
And we can go to usr share ingenix HTML and say cpp kalyan dot HTML cpp.
Uh, we can say index dot HTML two or colon.
Two dot HTML.
And now if we try to access it means like we can see file is created.
And in our local also we can see file is created which means a read write access is enabled by default.
And we can also access it via Kalyan two dot HTML.
And it is accessible.
So that is about it.
So we have successfully tested the bind mount using hyphen, hyphen mount flag and also using hyphen
V flag.
Okay, now we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
Okay.
Let me come back here and docker rm hyphen f dollar docker PS hyphen aq and docker rmi and dollar docker
images hyphen q.
So all the images in my local desktop and all the containers I have removed it.
And now if I say nothing is present, and now if I go back to my Docker desktop and in my containers,
nothing are there.
In images, nothing is there.
And volumes nothing is there.
As the container is removed, it's equivalent bind point also will be removed automatically.
So this completes the demo.
About docker bind mount basics.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Bind Mount in Read-Only mode ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to use bind mounts in read only format.
So using hyphen V flag and also using hyphen hyphen mount flag.
So we are going to use a read only option here.
So if it is for hyphen v it is r and for hyphen hyphen mount it is going to be read only.
So here we use bind mounts to securely share files and directories without allowing modifications from
the container.
So ideal for serving static content or configurations that should not be altered by the container.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement this in our next lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Bind Mounts in Read-Only mode ---

Welcome back.
We are in section 20, our demo 20, where we are going to use bind mounts in read only format.
So let's go to our respective command and then run that command.
It's going to be the same command but with additional comma read only for the mount flag from our previous
demo.
And here we are going to use the container name as bind demo three and also port as 8093 and type is
bind source.
We can see present working directory slash static content and target is usr share nginx.
HTML and we are going to mount it in read only mode.
We are going to run it in detach mode.
And also we are using nginx alpine slim as the docker image.
So we need to first change our directory to my files in section 20.
So we'll go here and we'll go to section 20.
And inside that we'll go to my files directory where we have the static content folder.
This is the section 20 static content folder.
And here we are going to run the command.
So this command we are going to run and once it is created, once the Docker image is created, we can
say docker PS and bind.
Demo three is ready now.
Docker exec hyphen it bind.
Demo three slash pin slash.
And inside that we'll go to usr share nginx.
HTML and I will say cp index dot HTML two ready dot HTML.
And it should say it cannot create the file because it should say read only file system.
So we have successfully mounted our local local file.
Local file system path inside the container in a read only format.
So let us do the same thing for our using hyphen v flag also.
So let me come down here and docker run hyphen.
Hyphen name and bind demo for is the container name 8094 is the port with port 80 as the container port
8094 is the local desktop port or my host port.
And then hyphen V is the volume we are going to like bind mount we are going to do here.
We are going to say that present working directory slash static content colon usr share nginx HTML.
And we are going to do it with r read only format in a detached mode.
And we are using nginx alpine slim docker image.
So let me copy this and run it right.
And once it is run we can run docker PS and it is running docker exec hyphen I t.
And we will go to bind demo for is the container name.
And we will go to search and we will go to usr share nginx.
HTML.
And inside that we will say some cp index dot HTML to the Ida dot HTML.
And you can see it is in the read only file system.
Only if you want you can run the command hostname.
And this container ID for bind demo four.
And this should match.
So here also you can see we have mounted it as a read only file system.
So we have successfully tested this using hyphen hyphen mount and hyphen v for the bind means like mounting
mounting our file system using bind option in a read only format.
Now let us go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created as part of this demo.
So all the steps are already documented and we just need to oh, it is the same demo, but only in the
read only format.
We went a little quick here, but if you want you can go through and then see every step means like
you can go to Docker Desktop and verify one more time.
So this is bind demo three.
And here in the bind mounts.
So this is the bind mount.
All those information.
You can see it in detail if you want.
Now we'll go ahead and then clean up the Docker containers.
Right.
And also we'll remove the Docker images.
If any present.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Volume vs Bind Mounts ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about volume versus bind mount in detail.
So let's go ahead and then understand the differences.
So we'll go here and talk about both Docker volumes and Docker bind mounts and differences in features
about those things how they operate.
So let's start with the data storage feature in Docker volumes and Docker bind mounts.
In Docker volumes, data is stored in Docker special directory on the host.
And if you talk about bind mounts, direct mapping of a host directory or file into the container file
system.
So we have seen both examples in detail in our previous practical demos.
And when we talk about data location stored in Docker's designated area and completely managed by Docker,
we are we will not be able to understand that or unpack it and then verify it.
But when we talk about Docker bind modes.
Any directory or file on the host system can be mounted inside our container using bind mounts, so
we can make changes from both sides.
Now data persistence.
Data persists even after the container is deleted managed by Docker.
So if you remember, when we create a volume and mount it to a container, we have seen that when container
is deleted, still volume still exists, right?
And that volume you can mount in other containers also.
So which means data persists even after the container is deleted and it is managed by Docker.
And now when we talk about the Docker bind mounts, data is tied directly to the host file.
System changes affect both the host and the container immediately.
So if we delete the container also data is present in host system only that is mounting inside the container.
There is no data loss here and we can make changes from both sides and it will be in effect if you make
the changes to your data from container, those will be reflected in the host system.
Also because it is the same path you are mounting in container.
So effect on container data.
So if you see for volumes it preserves the existing data.
So this is the very very very very important point.
And on this only this entire practical demo is going to be present.
So preserves existing data when mounted to a non-empty container directory which means in your Docker
image it's specific path.
Some content is there.
And using that you have created a container which means it's a non-empty container directory.
So existing container data is copied into the volume on first use.
So that's the advantage of using volumes.
But when you talk about bind mounts overrides container data when mounted to a non-empty container directory,
which means there is some content and for the same path inside the container, you are using, the bind
mounts to mount.
Then the host data replaces the existing data.
Your container data will be gone and whatever is present in your host system path which you are mounting,
that data will be, uh, present there.
So overwrites the container data.
And this demo, we are going to do it practically and then verify as part of this section and use cases
for Docker volumes sharing data between containers, persisting data like databases, and also for production
environments where data integrity is crucial.
And when we talk about Docker bind mounts, it is used primarily for, uh, development environments
needing live code changes.
So in your host file system where you are making your changes there in the container, those changes
will reflect immediately.
So for testing configurations accessing host files from the container.
So for those scenarios you can use bind mounts and performance.
If you see generally optimized by Docker for better performance and reliability.
For Docker volumes, it is going to be highly performant.
And when we talk about bind mounts, it depends on the host file system and it may vary.
We cannot guarantee the performance of it.
And when we talk about security Docker volumes are more secure when compared to bind mounts.
Bind mounts are less secure because Docker volumes are isolated from the host file system, and those
are managed by Docker.
But when we talk about Docker bind mounts, they are less secure.
Grants the container direct access to the host file system.
So that's the difference between volume versus bind mounts.
And if you go back here this is the thing effect on container data.
Docker volumes preserves existing data and Docker bind mounts uh overrides container data.
Based on these points.
We are going to do a practical demo now.
So I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement volumes vs Bind Mounts Non-empty DIR demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 21 where we are going to test volume and bind mounts using a non-empty dir in our Docker
image.
So for that purpose, we need to create a Docker image with some static content.
And then from that we need to create a Docker container using a type as volume, and Docker container
with a type as bind mount.
And when we are using type as volume, whatever the content present in the Docker image, right?
So when creating the content, the content, when creating the container, that content, whatever is
present inside the Docker image will be copied to the volume.
So the data will be persisted here.
But when we do the same thing when creating a container, if we use the type as bind and in that Docker
image, whatever the nginx static content is there, that content will be obscured.
So this we are going to test now.
So we have a standard Docker file here from where base nginx image is nginx alpine slim and standard
OCI labels, and we are going to copy the static content folder to usr ingenix HTML.
So this we have done multiple times.
So we can just quickly copy paste the content.
So in the Docker files folder you have the Docker file and also the static content.
So let's first go ahead and then build the Docker image now.
So Docker build hyphen t my nginx non-empty dir colon v one and then dot.
So we will go to CD docker files in section 21.
And we will go to Docker files folder and build the Docker image.
Once the Docker image is built you can see it here it is built and this is the Docker image.
And if you want to test it by creating a simple container, you can run this command to create by creating
a simple container Docker run and container name is non-empty dir demo one port is 8095 on my local
desktop, and 80 is the container port and my nginx non-empty dir is the Docker Her image right now.
If we go ahead and access it in the browser also.
Right, we can go here and localhost and 8095.
Our application should be accessible.
So that's about it.
A basic Docker image is created.
And from that a container is created.
Right.
And you can see all these files if we go to our Docker desktop also here in the uh in the files section,
if you go to usr share nginx.
So you'll go to usr share nginx right.
So this is the container what we have created just now non-empty dir demo one.
And you have all the content present.
Now what we are doing is we are going to create a new volume mount.
Right.
Means like we are going to create a new container with volume mount my volume 103 where it is going
to mount is usr share nginx.
HTML and we are going to use docker images my nginx non-empty dir v1.
So in this my nginx non-empty dir.
V1.
Inside this Docker image only in usr share nginx.
HTML folder content is existing.
Content is there, right?
Which is nothing, but it's not an empty dir.
It has some static content inside it.
So now when you try to mount a new volume at that path, what will happen is the behavior we are going
to test.
So I am trying to mount it and now let us see what happens.
Okay.
So I have created a new container.
And that container will go to Docker Desktop here that is uh non-empty dir volume demo.
So this is the one.
And if I go to the files here and if I go to usr share nginx and you can see HTML is a volume.
Now it is mounted as a volume just 21 seconds before.
And inside that the entire content is present.
So whatever we have seen as part of uh, nginx image, whatever we have created right inside that,
whatever the content is there, that entire content you can see here, file one, file 25354.
So which means that content is copied to this Docker volume.
So this entire content, whatever you have seen in the Docker image, my nginx non-empty Docker image,
that content is copied to the volume.
So that's what happened when we are using the volumes part.
Now let's do something with bind mount thing and see what happens.
Right.
So we are going to run the create a container name non-empty dir bind demo with port as 8097 from my
local desktop, and 80 as the container port and mount with hyphen, hyphen mount flag and type equal
to bind, bind and in source we have the present working directory slash static content.
And where is that located.
We need to go inside CD my files.
So let's come back here.
And we need to go inside my files directory and then run this command in my files directory.
You have a static content directory.
And there you have only local one dot HTML file.
Only one file is present which you are trying to bind means like which you are going to mount to your
Docker container using bind mount concept, right?
So bind concept.
Now let us come back here and see.
So this is the one you will go to CD my files.
And inside that in the present working directory static content folder, you are going to use as the
source and mount it to usr share nginx.
HTML.
And you are going to run it in the detached mode.
And also the container in the docker image you are going to create from my nginx non-empty dir v1.
Now what should happen is when this is created, right?
So ideally if you are using if as you have used the volume earlier.
Right.
So when you use it the volume concept.
So whatever the content present inside this Docker image right at this location is copied to this volume.
But now when you are doing the bind mount, that is not going to happen.
Whatever the existing content present inside this docker image at this location will be obscured and
then only the content, whatever you are sharing or whatever you are mounting from your local desktop
only will be present inside this folder.
So that should happen.
Now let's go ahead and then execute this command.
So to execute that first we need to be in the My Files directory.
So let me come back here and go to come out of Docker files.
We are in section 21.
And we will go to my files directory.
And in my files directory in static content folder we have the local one dot HTML.
So we are in my files directory.
So cross verify you are in my files directory before executing this command.
So we are in my files directory and let me run this command now.
So if I run the command docker PS so we can see non-empty dir bin demo is created.
Now we will go to Docker desktop here and non-empty dir bin demo.
And we will go to files section.
And we will go to user and then share and nginx.
You can see HTML is a mount.
And if I click on that HTML.
You have only local one dot HTML.
We don't have any other data.
So this Docker image container, whatever we have created is using this my nginx non-empty dir uh related
docker image only using this docker image only, we have created it.
If that is the case, it should have lot of content at this location which is in usr share nginx.
HTML.
But when we are using the bind mount, whatever the existing content present inside the docker image
is obscured and only whatever the local host directory related local content present which you are mounting
only that is present here.
So if you want we can also access it on the browser.
8097 slash local one dot HTML.
So this is the my local file from host machine.
So this is the one we are seeing it now.
So if we go here so this is the one.
So if you want you can change it to V2 and try to refresh it.
And it is V2.
And I will I'll change it to V101.
And if I try to refresh V101.
So on my local I am changing it.
And in the container it is changing automatically and I am able to access it via browser.
So I'll change it back to v one and it should be v one.
So that's about it.
Which means like the difference between volumes and bind mounts is bind mounts.
Whatever the existing data present in the Docker images will be obscured.
Uh, when when we are creating as a container using bind mounts.
And because of that we should be very careful.
So I have written the, uh, text very clearly here and also explained it in detail.
So let's go ahead and then clean up.
So this completes the demo about learning volume versus bind mounts when we have a non-empty dir.
So let us go ahead and then clean up what we have created as part of this demo.
Right.
And I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker tmpfs mount ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Tmpfs mount or a temporary mount in Docker storage.
So when we compare this Tmpfs mounts right.
These temporary mounts with the uh Docker uh regular volume and bind mounts.
We need to understand few things clearly here.
Volume and bind mounts let you share files between the host machine and container so that you can persist
data even after the container is stopped.
So that is possible in bind mounts and volumes.
But when we talk about tmpfs mounts right.
So these mounts are temporary file storage systems so that reside in host system's memory.
So because of that when the container is stopped right.
So it is going to lose all the thing whatever you have stored in that uh tmpfs mount.
So when you start the container back, the data is not present.
So the data is always stored in the host memory.
So this tmpfs mount is nothing but a part of your Ram from your host is mounted there to store the files,
so they are useful for scenarios requiring fast ephemeral storage that doesn't persist after the container
stops at Tmpfs Mount is temporary and only persisted in the host memory.
When the container stops, the tmpfs mount is removed and files written there won't be persisted.
So that's the thing.
So the key difference here is when we compare that with volume and bind mounts in volume and bind mounts,
data is persisted in the host system.
Even the container is stopped and even it is deleted.
But in tmpfs mount, because the data is stored in the host memory, when the container is stopped,
the data is lost.
When you start the container back, the data is not present.
So we are going to test this explicitly and understand it in more detail in a practical way.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker tmpfs mount ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 22 or section 22 where we are going to learn about Tmpfs Mount.
Right.
So let's go ahead and then create a simple Tmpfs mount.
So to create a tmpfs mount for a Docker container, we run the command docker run and provide your container
name.
And in the mount type you provide it as tmpfs and in the destination you say where it need to be mounted
in my container, I am saying it need to be mounted on slash app directory, and I am going to run it
in detached mode and I am going to use Nginx Alpine slim as the docker image.
So let me copy this and run it.
So we'll go to the terminal here and we'll come back out of previous demos.
And now we'll run the command uh with the Tmpfs mount.
Right.
So let's wait for it to get created.
So if I run the command docker PS my tmpfs demo related docker container is created now, so we can
verify that tmpfs mount by running the docker inspect command.
Right.
So in docker inspect you can see it here.
Or uh we can say pipe jq if JK is installed.
Right.
Uh that's the thing.
But uh okay.
That's fine.
We'll remove directly and we'll verify it.
Okay.
So we can go here inspect Tmpfs demo is the docker inspect and this is the container name and click
on enter.
And if we go to the mounts here.
So let us go up here.
This is count see type is Tmpfs source is uh nothing.
And in destination it is going to be slash app source is nothing.
But it's going to be temp tmpfs which means it is going to be a memory of your host machine.
So there is no source specification here even when you have run the command.
Also you can see it here.
Time p type is Tmpfs.
And directly you have given the destination here.
Now let's come back here and then connect and then verify the same thing.
So we'll go back to our terminal here we'll say Docker PS and my container name is this one tmpfs demo
docker exec hyphen I t tmpfs demo slash bin slash.
And if I say df hyphen h.
And you can see we should have a slash app directory, and it is having the 3.8GB of uh, storage here.
That is nothing but my host system's memory.
It is showing it here.
So that is fine.
So we will go to slash app directory.
And then we'll create a couple of files here.
So I'll create a file file one dot HTML and file two dot HTML in slash app directory I have two files.
Now file one and then file two.
Now I will come out of the container, which is if I say docker PS it is a tmpfs container.
I came out of that from the container terminal, and if I stop the container and start the container,
what will happen?
So docker stop Tmpfs hyphen demo as the container name.
And again I will say docker start.
Before that I'll run the command PS it and there is no container running now right?
I will say and PS hyphen a and you can see tmpfs demo is in the exited state.
Okay means like it is in the stopped state.
So I will say docker start the container back whose name is Tmpfs hyphen demo.
And now if you see docker container is running.
Now if I say docker exec hyphen it tmpfs hyphen demo slash bin slash, I will connect to that.
And if I go to slash app directory there are no files which is file one.
And file two is gone because it is very clearly said that whatever you store in Tmpfs Mount Point that
is stored in the Ram of your host memory.
When you stop and start the container, that data will be gone.
That is only a ephemeral storage.
So that's the thing.
So we have successfully tested that part.
And additionally there are some tmpfs options.
One is how much of the Ram you can allocate for your tmpfs mount in your container.
So that is also one very good option.
By default, Tmpfs mounts have a maximum size of 50% of the host's total Ram.
You can customize this using the Tmpfs size option.
So when you are creating the command docker run hyphen hyphen name Tmpfs demo size.
And in the mount you say type is Tmpfs destination is slash app, and for slash app, you want to allocate
only 100 MB from your 50% of your host memory.
So you can say Tmpfs size is 100 MB, so only 100 M will be allocated.
So we can test that now.
So we will run this command and it creates it.
Docker PS it created a tmpfs demo sys.
Now we will say docker inspect.
And this is the container we want to inspect.
And if you go up here and go to the mount part and verify it right.
So you can see uh ideally it should show here options with size as 100 M.
So whatever you are seeing here the sample output.
But that's fine.
So the other way of verifying it is Docker PS.
And we will say docker exec hyphen it and we will connect to that container tmpfs demo sys is the container
name and bin slash.
And inside that we will run the command df hyphen h.
And for the slash app earlier, for the first container you have seen for the slash app some 3.8 GB.
But here see it is 100 MB is allocated for it.
So that is the thing.
So now from your whole 3.8 GB of your Ram in your host machine, only 100 MB is allocated, 100 MB is
allocated.
So this is a safest option.
Why?
Because when we are allocating if without sys, if you try to mount the host system's memory to your
container, and if there is a huge amount of data is dumped inside that temporary folder.
Right.
So it might, uh, it might create a problem with your host system's memory is completely consumed and
your entire system might crash, or it might slow down, or everything will be a mess.
So using this tmpfs sys option, we can allocate whatever is needed.
So that is the reason this is one very good important option for us.
So that is about it.
So we also have a lot of limitations of tmpfs mounts.
So those are nothing but ephemeral.
Storage is one important thing.
So data stored in tmpfs mounts does not persist after the container stops, so it is not suitable for
data that needs to be retained across container restarts and there is no sharing between containers.
Unlike Docker volumes, tmpfs mounts cannot be shared between multiple containers, and also memory
consumption is another bigger limitation here.
These tmpfs mounts consume Ram.
Excessive use can lead to memory exhaustion on the host.
So these are the three important limitations with Tmpfs mounts.
Now let us go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
So we'll go back here and we'll run the command docker rm hyphen f and remove all the containers whatever
is running or created.
So I'll remove all the containers.
And I will also remove if any Docker images present here.
And if I run the command docker images, nothing should be present.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to deploying multi-container apps using Docker commands ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to focus on deploying a Multi-container application using Docker commands.
As part of that, we are also going to learn about Docker networking on a high level.
So let's understand what are these Multi-container applications.
So let's start with an example to understand more in detail more in detail.
So if you see here we have a simple MySQL database.
And here we have a simple some web application.
We call it as user management web application.
So we deploy user management web application in one container and MySQL database in one container.
And so now these are two containers.
So like this.
There is another feature in your application some Redis cache.
And you want to deploy one more container.
So like this we can deploy multiple containers.
And then how to connect those containers together to communicate.
So there comes the container networking.
So all those things we are going to see in this demo using Docker commands.
And once we learn to do that using Docker commands, in the next demo onwards, we will focus on doing
that declaratively using YAML using Docker compose a tool.
So now let's start with learning to do that using docker run command okay.
So now if you see in general one container can run one process at a time.
So example a container can run nginx process or a container can run MySQL database process.
Or if it is some spring boot or some Java application.
So that container can run that specific process in that container.
Now use cases here are we are going to deploy a simple application that will create users in MySQL database.
So this is a simple application.
You can log into that application and create users.
And those users will get created in this MySQL database and we need two containers for that.
One is to run the web application which is user management web application, and the other is database
which is MySQL database.
So separate containers, if we put them in separate containers, they let us version them separately
and also update those versions in isolation.
So if you have a application code changes and if you want to deploy a V2 version of your code, then
you need to update it only this respective container means like from the Docker image v2 version tag,
you can create a new container and this can be terminated.
So no impact to the database.
So that way separate containers let you version and update versions in isolation.
And by default containers run in isolation and don't know anything about other processes or containers
on the same mission.
So if you are running user management, web application.
So this user management web application need to communicate to this MySQL database to create the users
inside it, or to create whatever the objects this, uh, application does.
Those things need to be created in this database.
So for that purpose, we need to put them in a same network.
So how do you allow one container to talk to another.
So the answer there is container networking.
So if you place the two containers on the same network they can talk to each other.
So if it is container one and container two, if these two are present in the same network then they
can talk to each other.
So now let us come back here and see.
This is a MySQL container.
And here this is the command to create it in the same way.
This is the UM's container UM's app container.
And this is the command to create it.
These things we are going to go ahead and then discuss it in detail and practically implement in our
next lecture.
So I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Create Docker network and mysqldb container ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 23, our section 23, where we are going to deploy a Multi-container application using
Docker commands.
So here first we are going to create a Docker network.
And we are going to launch a MySQL database container in this using this Docker network and in the same
Docker network, we are also going to deploy a user management web app container that connects to this
MySQL database container.
Because these two containers are present in the same Docker network, they can communicate to each other.
Then once both the containers are created, we will verify the web app features like login to this web
application listing the users and creating new users.
And after that, once the demo is successful, we will go ahead and then clean up all the Docker resources.
So let us start with creating the MySQL database container.
So before that we need to first create the Docker network.
So to list the existing Docker networks you can run the command docker network LS.
So let me come back here.
We'll say Docker network and then LS.
And you have the default networks here bridge host and then none.
Now we are going to create Docker network create.
And we are going to say the network name as UMS hyphen app.
For this app we are creating a new network.
And if I say the command Docker network ls you can see UMS app bridge network is created.
Now the next thing is we need to list any existing Docker containers present here.
Nothing is present or PS hyphen a.
We tried to put our local desktop very clean for every demo to be successful, so that is good.
Now we will go back here and review this command first before creating a MySQL database.
So let's say docker run and hyphen d we are going to run it in a detached mode.
So once this command is run, terminal will be freed up for us so that we will be able to run other
commands inside this terminal.
So after that we have said hyphen, hyphen, network flag.
And what is the network this MySQL container is going to use UMS app, which we have just now created
it.
And we are also providing a network alias for this respective container whose name is MySQL, which
means in this network you can access your MySQL database using this MySQL DNS name.
Just say MySQL and you will be able to connect to this MySQL container.
So we are giving a network alias for it, which is MySQL.
And we have also said hyphen hyphen name ums mysql db.
Now this is nothing but your container name, and hyphen v is nothing, but you are creating a volume
for the data storage persistent volume for this respective database.
So you are saying the volume name is UMS MySQL data and you are mounting the var lib MySQL as the underlying
database path where data will be stored var lib MySQL.
And you are also providing hyphen.
E is nothing but an environmental variable.
You are setting on this container MySQL root password, which is db password one one and mysql database.
Once the db pass root password is set, you are also creating a default database which is web app db
as a default schema inside this MySQL database and you are using hyphen P and the host port is 3306
and container port is also 3306.
And the MySQL docker image you are using is MySQL 8.0.
So that is the complete thing.
So you can go to Hub.docker.com and you can go to MySQL here and explore that image in detail.
The MySQL image here is there.
Right.
So this image you can review and explore it in detail.
So currently we are using 8.0.
So this is the one we are using.
Now.
you can see it here.
The, uh, all the things I have explained it here in detail also.
So you are saying network alias MySQL means connects the MySQL container to the custom network with
the alias MySQL, making it accessible by this name to other containers, which means our user management
web app can connect to this MySQL container using this MySQL alias name.
So that's the thing.
Now let me copy this command and then run it here.
And this should create a MySQL database for us.
So it is currently pulling the Docker image from Docker Hub.
And once it is pulled it is going to create the container for us.
Let's wait for it to get uh for the container to get created, we can see it is created.
So if we run the command docker PS, we can see ums.
MySQL db container is created.
Now.
Now the next thing is verify mysql container.
First thing is we'll go here and run the command docker volume ls and you can see UMS MySQL data volume
is created.
Any other volumes will try to remove will go to Docker desktop.
This is the one and in volumes I don't want this.
My volume 103 which we have created earlier.
We will try to put only one volume which is UMS MySQL data and in addition to that we can also connect
to the MySQL container and verify the stuff docker exec hyphen I t and your container name and your
shell MySQL shell with username as root and password as dbpassword one one.
So let's go here I will say docker exec hyphen I t.
And this is the container name ums mysql db.
And I'm going to say mysql as the shell inside that and hyphen u root and hyphen p and no space Dbpassword
11R.
You can just say hyphen p and it will ask for the password.
You can provide the password and you are in the MySQL prompt.
And here you can run the command show schemas and you can see web app DB schema which will be our underlying
database for user management web app application.
So that is created by default.
And if you want you can use web app DB show tables and then exit.
So you can go to web app DB and say show tables.
And currently nothing should be there.
It's a base schema created and we will exit.
And later once we start the user management web app container, we can see that in detail.
So in our next lecture we can go ahead and then uh learn about user management web app container.
But for now we can get the MySQL container IP address using Docker inspect hyphen f and then all the.
By running this command you can get the IP address of your, uh, respective, uh, Docker container,
which is UMS, mysql db.
Or you can directly say you inspect Respect ums MySQL db.
And then you can see here is the IP address of that respective container.
So anything is fine.
And test the importance of hyphen hyphen network alias flag.
So create a simple uh simple Docker container.
And inside that run the command dig MySQL ns and uh nslookup MySQL.
So this is a simple Docker container whose name is test MySQL DNS and hyphen hyphen it.
And then we are trying to put that in the network UMS app.
And the container is Nicola NetSuite.
So this is a troubleshooting container we have on Docker Hub.
So if you go to Docker Hub and if you try to go to this respective container right.
So this Docker image.
So it is a for Docker Kubernetes network troubleshooting.
You can use this Swiss Army container.
And it will have all these things inside it.
So all the important things related to networking will be present inside it.
And you can use it to troubleshoot means like using this container you can troubleshoot all the tools
are packages is present inside this container.
So what we will do is using uh use all the things are present inside this Docker image.
So from this image we can create a container and connect to that container and then verify, uh whatever
we want to do any network testing.
So let's go ahead and then create this container now.
And once it is created.
Right.
So it is a simple container.
We are saying test MySQL DNS container.
Right.
And when it is creating also it will directly connect to it.
We have given hyphen it right.
We will once the container started we will land in its container terminal itself directly.
See.
So we have directly connected to that container.
So if I say hostname also you can see you are inside that container.
Now uh welcome to NetSuite.
So and so so and so it is saying now if I say dig MySQL this container is also created in the same network,
um, as my app.
So now if I say dig MySQL and if I say enter right.
So it is, uh, resolving to one 7218 zero two.
So if you remember earlier, uh, our ums MySQL db ip address is one 1718 zero two.
So whatever the alias name we have given here.
Right.
So whatever the alias name we have given MySQL, it is resolving to our IP address of our MySQL container
IP address of our MySQL container.
So which is uh which means user management web application can directly use MySQL uh, my MySQL as the
DNS name to connect to the MySQL database.
So that is the key thing to remember here.
So let us say exit clear.
And if I say docker PS only one container is running PS hyphen a.
Then just now the it exited the test MySQL DNS container.
In our next lecture, let us focus on learning about user management.
Web app container.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-03: Create UMS container, verify by creating users and cleanup ---

Welcome back.
Now we will set up the User Management WebApp container which will connect to the MySQL container.
So we will pull and run the user Management webapp container.
It is located at this location.
So we can click on this link and it will take us to our GitHub packages user management webapp v6.
So you can go to packages and you will find it here in User management.
WebApp v6 is the version which we are using now.
And the same Docker image is also present in Docker Hub, but in Docker Hub usually we will hit the
pull limits.
So that is the reason I am trying to use it from a GitHub packages.
So you can see it here.
Or I can say.
Stack simplify user management web app v6.
So it is also present here.
But we will try to use it from GitHub packages only accordingly.
It is Gcr.io slash stack.
Simplify user management web app v6 will try to copy this docker pull and run it here, or we can directly
copy this from here and run it.
So first we will pull the Docker image.
Let me pull it.
And once that is done we will go here and review this command.
So we will say docker run and hyphen D is we are going to run the container in detached mode, run the
web app container and link it to the MySQL container.
Link means connect means like.
You need to provide the MySQL information here to connect to that MySQL container.
So this uh UMS app right container we are going to run in the network UMS app network, which we have
created when creating the MySQL container so that both the UMS web app and also the uh, MySQL DB will
be present in the same network.
Right?
So this network part is clear and name of the container is UMS app.
That is clear.
And another thing is we are going to set the environmental variables wherein we say db hostname is MySQL.
Because you have given the MySQL as the network alias here, if you remember to connect to the database,
you can use the name as MySQL as the DNS name and DB port is 3306 DB name is webapp db which you have
created when creating a container here.
So if you remember webapp db right?
So that is webapp db and db username is root and password is db password one one and container port
is 8080.
And you are also going to expose the same thing means like you are going to access it on the browser
on your local desktop.
Also with 8080.
And this is the Docker image which you are going to use.
So let us go ahead and then run this.
So this whatever you are, whatever you are seeing.
User management web app v6 is a simple spring boot web application.
And for it, you need to set these environmental variables so that it can connect to the database.
So everything is written in the code when these environmental variables are set, it will be able to
connect to the database.
So that's the thing.
So now let me run this command now.
So if I run the command and you can see it here container started.
Now if I say docker PS we can see uh user management web app is currently starting.
It started already seven seconds before.
So we will say Docker uh logs and I will say UMS hyphen app and see uh, or we can say docker logs,
clear docker logs, hyphen f and ums app.
And you can see our application is started successfully.
So all these are the things Spring Boot defied the logs.
Now we will verify and access the application now.
So let us come out of this Docker logs f and then we will check the database for users.
So whenever a user management web application first initializes it will create a default user in the
MySQL database in user table which is admin 101.
User should be created.
So let's go ahead and then verify that.
So that's the way this application is configured.
Right.
So inside it it is configured a data dot SQL is put wherein when this application starts for the first
time in the database in the database it will connect and then create in user table a base admin 101
user.
So let's first connect to that right.
And then we will say show schemas.
And we have the web app DB schema.
We will say use web app db.
And inside that we will say show tables.
And in that we have the user table.
Here I'll say select star from user and we can see it here admin 101 default user is created.
So by by default means like by any chance if the user is not created for you right?
If that is the case then what you do is remove the container means like docker rm hyphen f and then
remove this container.
UMS app and then rerun this one more time and then see.
Okay, so ideally it should be created but just for additional thing.
So after web app initialization a default user should be present in the user table which we have verified.
Now we can go to our application here which is running on 8080.
Right.
So and then what we will do is the default username is admin 101.
And default password is password 101.
So we will say admin 101 and password 101.
And we'll click on sign in.
And I'll try to minimize this.
And uh we can we can click on okay.
Now you can see uh uh when we click on this list users section we can see admin 101 which is present
in our database is listed here.
So this web application is successfully able to communicate to MySQL database.
Even the authentication happened with the username and password whatever is present in the database
using that.
Even the authentication also happened, which means it is working as expected.
But for further testing we will say create user and I will say uh admin 102 and password 102 and f name
102L name 102 and email 102 at the rate kalyan.com and SSN 102.
And I will try to create this user and then click on add.
And this user is created here.
Now if we go back to the database here and if I say select star from user admin 102 user should be present.
See admin 102 user is present now.
So which means from this application using browser, this application you have you have accessed on
browser and created a new user.
And this application pushed that user to this MySQL database.
So the entire communication is working as expected.
So if you want you can create some more users.
But we have successfully deployed Multi-container application, which is a user management web application
with MySQL database as the underlying database.
And then we have tested it successfully.
Now we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
As part of this demo I will say exit and I will remove the containers.
And I will also remove the Docker images.
And I will also remove the volume.
And I will also say Docker network ls right.
And we should have something called UMS app network.
I will say docker network RM and then UMS app.
And this network also should be removed.
And if I say docker network ls whatever the network we have created, also we have cleaned up.
So this completes the Multi-container application demo.
Deploying it using Docker commands.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker compose basics ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn the basics of Docker Compose and also implement a simple Docker compose
YAML configuration for creating a MySQL database.
So let's understand what exactly is this docker compose?
Before going and understanding what is the use case we are going to implement.
So Docker compose is a simple tool used for defining and running multi-container applications.
So it helps for an efficient development and deployment experience.
Compose simplifies the control of your entire application stack, making it easy to manage services,
networks and volumes in a single YAML configuration file.
So let us go back here to our Visual Studio Code and understand that in a detailed way.
So we have multiple Docker compose demos here.
If you go to one of the around something like demo 30 right in the startup order demo.
So if you see here we have multiple things defined here in services.
You have a ingenix defined here.
And you have the app UMS defined here, and also a database defined here.
So you have defined three things here.
One is a web server and the other is a app server, and the other is a database server.
And with a single command, all these things can be ready for us by just running a single command.
Whereas in the previous demo.
So if you go to the previous demo here.
Right.
So let me go back to demo 23.
Right.
So if we go to demo 23, when creating a Multi-container application, first we have created a network.
And after that we created a MySQL container.
And then after that we created the user management web app container.
In addition to that, if you want to front this application with nginx, then you need to create one
more container by running this command.
So which means you need to run multiple commands to create all these things.
But with Docker compose, all these things will be completely simplified.
Just a docker.
Write this YAML configuration file for each service.
What is needed?
And after that, if you run the docker compose up as the command, then automatically all these things
will get created immediately.
So we are going to implement this in a incremental manner.
So first in the demo 24 we'll learn about volumes using Docker Compose.
And then we will learn about named volumes using Docker Compose.
And after that we will implement the complete UMS tag which means whatever we have implemented in demo
23 Multi-container application UMS application using docker run commands.
Here we are going to implement using Docker Compose, right?
So both the things we will define as services in Docker compose and run the single command.
And all these things will be available for us.
And then we will learn about Docker compose, deploy networks, health checks, startup order and many
other features.
Whatever is present in Docker compose all those things we are going to learn as part of this demos.
Now let's come back here.
So with a single command we create and start all the services from your configuration file and compose
works in all environments in production, staging, development, testing as well as in the continuous
integration workflows.
Also, Docker compose works and it also has commands for managing the whole life cycle of your application
example like starting, stopping and rebuilding the services.
We can do it using Docker compose start.
Docker compose stop means like a docker compose up, docker compose down and docker compose build.
So there are multiple commands available to manage the entire life cycle of our application.
Even we can view the status of our running services and also using Docker compose logs command, we
can stream the log output of running services.
So that is about very high level on a Docker compose.
Now let's go back here and understanding in this demo what we are going to do.
In this demo we are going to deploy a MySQL 8.0 database using Docker Compose.
So this is the first step.
So how we are going to do that.
So we are going to have a simple compose file where we define the what it need to create, what container
it need to create and what information we need to provide for this container when it is getting started.
So we will have the we will persist the database using the uh with a named volume my DB.
So if it is a MySQL database, it also needs a volume to be created.
So if you want to create manually you need to first create a volume.
And then after that you need to create a container.
Or when creating a container itself using docker run command it will create a new volume.
So whatever the approach you want, you can do it using command line but in a declarative way using
YAML configurations so you can define volumes.
My DB is the name of the database under volume section.
And then that we are going to reference in the volume section in the in the respective service which
is MySQL service.
So we are going to expose the database port with 3306 to our local host so that we can access to the
database and then also verify things.
So 3306 is the host port and another 3306 the second one is your container port.
And we set up MySQL environment variables for root password and initial database.
So you will set the MySQL root password as db password one one and MySQL database as web app db enable
automatic restarts with restart always to ensure high availability.
So these things we are going to do now.
So let us go back to our Visual Studio Code and then implement these things.
In our next lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker compose mysqldb service ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 24 where we are going to implement the Docker compose basics.
Here we are going to create a simple MySQL DB service with the underlying persistent data.
Persistent data to store.
We are also going to create a volume docker volume.
So let all these things we are going to declaratively declare in our YAML configuration file, which
is nothing but docker compose YAML file.
So let us start and then implement this practically.
So the project structure is going to be in the MySQL db folder.
We are going to have the docker compose dot YAML file.
So let us go to our Visual Studio Code here.
And in section 24 you have the MySQL DB folder.
And inside that you can see docker compose dot YAML file.
So let's review this docker compose file now.
So we will start with the name.
Name of this stack is UMS stack.
So and in services section we can define any number of services.
So example MySQL and another service, another application.
You have that service.
You can define it here.
And if you have some other service example, we said you have the uh UMS application, which is a web
application, so that you can define as one service.
And if you have nginx as a front end web server, you can define that as another service.
So here we have provided simple MySQL service right.
So means like we are creating a simple MySQL service.
So we set the name as MySQL.
This you can give a desired name anything you want you can give here.
And under this MySQL service you provide your container name.
This is optional.
If you don't give it it will auto generate it.
Same as how we run using docker run command.
So name of the container is ums mysql db.
These things you can compare it with the demo 23.
Whatever we have implemented this uh MySQL container command we have run right using docker run.
So that one we can use to compare whatever is present in the docker-compose.yaml file for MySQL service.
So let us start with the, uh, let's start with the, uh, image.
We are using MySQL 8.0.
So if you see MySQL 8.0 is the image and we said restart always.
And in the environment variables we are saying MySQL root password and MySQL database.
So those things you can see it here.
And in addition to that ports also we can see 3306 as the host port, which means I should be able to
access this database from my local desktop.
And in addition to that this is the container port.
So that is the thing.
And in the volume section we already created in volumes my DB volume.
So we are saying my DB volume is mounted here, my DB volume with path as var lib as MySQL.
So in this location of our container var lib, MySQL will be the location in the container where this
volume will be mounted.
So that is the thing.
So that is the docker compose file which we are going to use to create a MySQL service now.
So let us come down.
Let me go back to demo 24 and then go ahead and then create a create a container.
So to create it we need to run the command.
We need to go to that Mysqldb folder which means where our compose file is present.
From there we need to run the command docker compose up.
And then if you want to run it in the detached mode, which means the terminal need to be freed up for
running further commands.
Some other commands so you can use hyphen D.
So now let us come back here and we'll go to come out of this.
And we are here in Docker in a weekend.
And we will go inside demo 24.
And inside that we have the MySQL db.
We will say docker compose up and then hyphen d.
And this should create a containers for us.
So it is saying that MySQL it is trying to pull the MySQL uh MySQL Docker image, and once it is pulling
the Docker image from the Docker hub, after that it is going to start that container.
So it is saying that uh network stack UMS stack default is created and volume UMS stack Mydb is created
and container ums mysql db is created.
So if you do not provide the container name here, it will also start with ums, hyphen, stack, underscore,
mysql or something.
It is going to give the name if you don't provide the container name.
Now first thing is we will start with verifying the Docker network ls and you can see UMS tag.
Default network is created for it.
Next is docker volume ls and you can see UMS tag.
My db volume is created and next is container docker PS.
And you can see mysql container is created here.
So now if you want you can say Docker compose docker Uh, PS and you can verify the logs like this.
Um, s hyphen, hyphen f and, um, s hyphen mysqldb.
So this is regularly verifying the container logs for that specific container.
But you can also use the compose command to also use it.
So you can say Docker compose logs and service name is MySQL.
So you can see it here.
Write service name is MySQL.
So docker compose logs and then MySQL.
And you can see the logs for that MySQL here in detail.
So for this um MySQL db container these are the logs it is showing.
So if you have another container also running as part of this those things also we can by providing
that respective service name we can get those information also.
Now the next thing here is we have successfully verified the logs will connect to the MySQL container.
So to do that we will say docker exec hyphen.
It and then provide your container name.
And MySQL is the command line CLI, right?
So MySQL hyphen u root and hyphen p and provide your database password.
So now let us come back here docker PS docker exec hyphen I t.
And then this is the container name right.
UMS mysql db.
So let me provide that.
And MySQL is the cli hyphen u root and hyphen p.
And if you want you can provide the password here itself without space or enter.
And here db password one one.
And we are in the MySQL prompt we can say show schemas.
And you can see web app DB schema is created.
So which means everything is successful.
So whatever you have provided here MySQL initialization database web app DB.
Also it created successfully.
We have also verified the volumes.
And now to stop the container you can run the command stop and remove the containers.
You can run the command docker compose Down, so we'll go here.
Currently we can see if I run the command docker compose PS also you can run and it will also provide
the same same docker container name.
So we'll say docker compose down.
And it is saying that container ums mysql db remote and network UMS tag default also removed but volume
if you see volume should be present.
If you want docker volume rm and also remove the volume, whatever it has created, volume will be usually
persisted.
And if you want to remove, we need to remove it manually.
Now if you see docker PS no containers PS hyphen a no containers.
So this completes the demo about creating a MySQL database using Docker compose with volumes also present
are defined in our docker compose file.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Docker Compose named volumes demo ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about defining named volumes using Docker Compose.
So this is a very small demo just to understand how we need to add additional metadata to our volumes.
So in the previous demo we just said volumes and Mydb and mounted that mydb in our MySQL service.
But here we can see for volumes, we can add additional metadata like this.
Something like name equal to UMS, MySQL db data v1.
You can provide a name explicitly name the volume as a desired name, which is more relevant for our
specific scenario and which driver you want to use, right?
By default it is a local driver, but in volumes you can also use.
You can also have a volume in external places.
And if you want to use that respective driver.
So you can also use those drivers.
So by default it is driver equal to local.
So we can leave it as is okay.
So if you don't define also it is going to use the local driver.
In addition to that we can also define the labels for better management.
You can provide project name, what component it is, and for what purpose.
You are using all those things you can define using labels section.
So now let's go back and practically implement it.
It is going to be same as previous demo other than these additional metadata.
So once we add these additional metadata so is there any impact to our thing or not.
We are going to verify that is all okay.
So we are in section 25 or demo 25 docker compose named volume.
So we are going to review the docker compose file here.
So we'll go to Visual Studio Code and we'll go to section 25 in MySQL DB named volume folder in Docker
compose YAML.
So you can see this part is as is until.
Here it is as is here we have defined the name driver and then labels.
Now let's come back to our terminal.
And here you can see the name you have defined as my DB.
And it has been named as UMS tag underscore my DB in our previous demo.
So now let us see what happens now with this name whatever we have given.
So let's come out of the previous demo.
Enter into the section 25 Docker compose named volumes and inside that we have the MySQL db named volume
folder where.
Now you can see the docker-compose.yml file.
So we will say docker compose up and then hyphen d.
And then this should create a Docker image for us.
You can see it here network created and you can see volume ums mysql db Data1 with this name only volume
created and container ums mysql db.
So whatever the name you have defined here, using that name volume got created.
So if I say docker volume ls you can see it here R we can go to our Docker desktop here and go to volumes.
And you can see UMS MySQL db data v1.
So that's the name we have given for it.
And remaining things we can leave as is.
And one more thing means like whether it is created or not, you can run docker PS and you can see that
your your MySQL database is running.
If you want Docker logs hyphen f and u-m's MySQL db and verify the logs also if you want.
Okay, now the important thing here is let me say docker compose down right.
And then we will say without hyphen d we will give it and then see what happens.
Docker compose up and you can see it is terminal is still holding for this respective thing.
Why.
Because it is not in the detached mode.
And you can see attaching the my ums, mysql db created all these things and everything you can see
it in detail means like uh, it will not run in the detached mode and terminal will be blocked for us.
So I will try to stop it and then I will run the command docker compose down.
So it's always good to use hyphen d if we want the terminal to be freed up for us to run other commands,
and accidentally if someone tries to run the command ctrl c also, whatever the application running
might uh, might get stopped.
So for that purpose it is good to use hyphen D when we are starting up.
Okay, so that is the important thing.
And if you go to the containers here, we have shut down and it is down.
So now you can see right how fast you can bring your applications up, compose up D and it is up now.
So docker compose PS and you can see it is running.
Now if you see this is the UMS tag and in UMS tag.
Currently only UMS Mysqldb is running.
So now in the next demo we are going to focus on adding one.
Then another application which is UMS web app which is our uh user management web application we are
going to add as part of next demo.
Now we can see in the UMS tag we have only the MySQL container.
Let us go ahead and then say Docker compose down.
And you should see that container is stopped and then removed.
It is gone.
Now we will go here to volumes and remove the volume manually if we do not need it.
So this completes the demo.
About named volumes using Docker compose.
So we have successfully defined this way and created it and tested it.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to UMS Stack using Docker Compose ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to build a UML stack, which is nothing, but we are going to have a MySQL
database and user management web application.
So all these things in a single Docker compose file.
So you can see that here.
So earlier we have this volumes Mydb and MySQL part.
Now we are going to add this uh UMS application part.
So you can see it here.
Container name you are providing is UMS app and docker image.
This is the Docker image we are going to use and ports we are going to expose to our local desktop with
8080 host port and 8080 as the container port.
And in addition to that these are the environment variables.
So DB hostname and this is the MySQL service.
So whatever the service name you have provided here the same thing you will provide here.
And port is 3306 and DB name we have given as web app DB initialization db and then db username is root
and db password is dbpassword one one.
So these are standard whatever we have given as part of our demo.
23.
Right.
So if we go to our uh, demo 23 so let me go to 23.
And if we go to our, uh, thing here.
So these are the standard things.
So those environmental variables are defined here.
And in addition to that port is 8080.
It is the same thing.
And Docker image it is the same thing.
And container name.
You just gave it as UMS app.
And the only thing different here is depends on MySQL.
So let's understand that now in detail.
So we are going to deploy the user management web app which will have the UMS app and MySQL database.
So for inter service communication we are going to use the uh environmental variable here DB hostname
and provide the database service name here.
Database service name is MySQL.
So we are providing it here.
And what is the service name for your UMS app?
It is my UMS app is the service name, so this becomes the service name whatever we define here.
And in addition to that we are also going to use the Dependson argument here depends on directive.
So what it does is it will wait for the MySQL service to be up.
And once the MySQL service is up, then only it will start this container.
So which is nothing but UMS app container will be started only after the MySQL container.
Before that, if our application starts then automatically it is going to fail.
So for that purpose we will use the depends on directive and inside that we will provide the MySQL service
name.
So you can see it's a list item.
And here you have provided the MySQL service name.
In addition to that we are going to expose the MySQL with 3306 and our UMS app with 8080.
So let's go ahead and then practically implement and then verify this.
Uh, using Docker compose commands.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker compose ums-stack demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 26 Docker compose your stack.
And here we are going to go ahead and then review our docker compose file.
We have already reviewed in our introduction section.
But in addition to that we are also going to review it one more time.
We will go to demo 26, Docker compose stack and Docker-compose.yaml so you can see it here.
This is the my U-m's app service and this is the MySQL service.
And here you have defined the volumes my DBS.
So this part we have seen in our previous demo also.
So this is the new one where you have defined my UMS app service name and container name is UMS app
and this is the docker image we are using.
This Docker image is present in our uh, GitHub packages.
So if you go to packages section and if you go to the v6.
So this is the Docker image we are using here user management web app v6.
This is available publicly so anyone can use it.
And then ports we are going to expose localhost port is 8080 and container port is 8080 and depends
on MySQL.
So this container right.
So this container will start only after the MySQL container is started.
So that's the reason we have given depends on MySQL because without MySQL it means like when this application
is getting started user management web app it first connects to the MySQL database.
If it is not up, this application start will fail.
So we are saying it here depends on MySQL and in environmental variables.
We have provided all the environment variables required here, mainly the DB hostname which is nothing
but this is the service name MySQL service name we have provided here.
So if you have something called here MySQL 101, then you need to provide here 101 something like that
MySQL 101.
So whatever is the service name, you need to provide it here as the DB host name port is 3306 and db
name initialization db means like the db.
This is going to connect is webapp db schema and user is root and password is Dbpassword one one.
So now let us come back here and then start our application using the command docker compose up hyphen
d.
So for that purpose we will go here.
We will come out of this and we will go to demo 26.
Demo 26 which is docker compose ums tag.
And here inside that we will have the folder UMS tag folder.
There you can see the docker compose file.
So we can say docker compose up hyphen d.
And this should start all the things here MySQL service and also UMS app service.
So you can see UMS app also.
uh, it downloaded the Docker images and now it starts.
It created a network and then it created a volume and it created a MySQL DB container first.
And after that it created a UMS app container.
Now let's go ahead and then verify the services.
So we'll start with running the command docker compose PS.
And we can see the containers running here.
And we can also verify the logs using Docker compose logs hyphen f and provide the service names.
When we are verifying the logs using docker compose, we need to provide the service name.
So if we go here.
So this is the service name my UMS app.
And then MySQL is the service name.
So we'll start with MySQL.
And this is the ums MySQL db logs in the same way docker compose logs hyphen f.
And let's come back here.
And this is the my UMS app.
So this service will verify the logs.
So like this.
You can verify the logs using Docker compose.
In addition to that you can also verify logs using container names using Docker logs command.
So now docker PS and docker logs hyphen f.
And then you can see ums.
MySQL db is the container name and its container logs in the same way docker logs hyphen f and UMS app
is the container name for a user management web application and its logs.
We can see it here, so that way we can verify the logs.
We can also go ahead and then access our application using localhost 8080.
Before that we will also go to our Docker desktop here.
And we can go to containers.
And you can see in the UMS tag.
Now you will see ums mysql db.
And also you can see UMS app and UMS Mysqldb is using MySQL 8.0 Docker image and UMS app is using stack
simplify web app v6 related docker image so that docker image it is using.
Now let's come back here and we'll go back and access our application using localhost 8080.
So we'll say localhost 8080.
And the username is admin 101.
And password is password 101.
If you want we can also put the logs here in the trailing way.
And then we'll go here admin 101 password 101.
And this should log in to our application.
And if we click on list users we can see the users here.
And login is successful.
We can also create new users and verify if we want to.
So we can go here and say admin 102 password 102F.
Name 102.
L name 102.
Email 102 and SSN some 102 and click on add before clicking add.
I'll try to verify the logs here and add is complete.
Nothing is logged and we can log out and if you want we can also run with admin 102 and password 102.
And we can see it is successful.
Now we can click on Log out.
So that is about uh uh creating users means like our application deployment is successful.
Now we can connect to MySQL container and verify the logs if you want to.
So you can run this command to connect to it.
And here we can say use web app DB.
And inside that we will say select.
You can say show tables show tables and select star from user and we should see our second user admin
102 is also created.
And if we want we can also verify the container to container communication how it is working.
So we can connect to our UMS app.
And from there we can run the commands Nslookup for the other container which is a database container.
So if you see in the picture here, also a user management web app is connecting to MySQL database using
service name MySQL.
So this service name is resolving to the container IP or not.
Also we can verify.
So how do we do that.
We will say docker PS and docker exec hyphen I t and my UMS application name is UMS app and slash bin
slash bash.
Okay, and now I am inside my UMS application.
Here I can say Nslookup and MySQL is the service name and it is resolving to so and so IP address 172
18 zero two.
So if we come here and go to our Docker desktop and if you go to the ums MySQL db, and if we go to
the inspection here and if you go at the end, right.
One 7218 zero two is the IP address of my MySQL DB.
So when I say uh nslookup mysql it is resolving to that IP address.
So whatever the communication we have specified here in the docker compose, use the service name.
So it is successfully able to connect to the uh Docker container which is having the MySQL database.
So that's about it.
So we have successfully tested that if you want we can also test the same service, which is nothing
but my UMS up to which uh uh, you can say in this lookup and my UMS app and you can see it is resolving
to one 7218 zero three.
Now, if you go to the Docker desktop here and go to containers and UMS app and go to uh, go to inspect.
And at the end if you see its IP address, it is one 7218 zero three.
So that is about it.
Now we can go ahead and then stop and remove the stuff.
So we can say docker compose down.
And it should remove the both containers for us the stop and remove those containers.
But if you want to remove the volume also.
So you have the volume here right.
So this volume, whatever it has created uh, during this uh, deployment.
So if you want to remove the volume, also you can run the command docker compose down and then hyphen
v.
So let's try docker compose will come out of this container.
Docker compose down.
Just will try first down.
And it says container is removed.
Uh container is removed.
Uh both containers are removed and network is removed.
But if you go here, you still have your volume still present.
Or you can say Docker volume ls and it is still present.
So what we will do is first we will say docker compose up, d let it come up and now we will run the
command docker compose down hyphen v.
So this should also remove the volume for us.
So you can see UMS app container is removed UMS Mysqldb container is removed UMS tag Mydb which is a
volume is removed and network is also removed.
So if I run the command docker volume ls, you should see nothing here even if we go here also in volumes
nothing is present.
So that is about the complete UMS tag.
Whatever we have implemented, whatever we have discussed, we have implemented it.
In our next demos, we will try to enhance this compose file to add more and more features to it.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Compose DEPLOY ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker Compose deploy option.
So using deploy option we can scale our replicas.
So one container can be scaled to multiple replicas.
Using this deploy option.
We are also going to implement a three tier deployment wherein we have the front end as NGINX and UMS
web app will be our application server and back end will be MySQL db.
And this deploy option we are going to apply on UMS web app, which means we can create multiple containers
and load balance the traffic coming to these containers using front end nginx.
So let's go ahead and then see what we are going to implement.
So in web tier we are going to have nginx application which is web nginx.
And then the service name is web nginx and in app tier.
We are going to have app UMS which is our user management web app with deploy option as replicas as
three replicas.
And here we are going to have the MySQL database.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this in our next lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Review docker-compose.yaml and nginx.conf files ---

Welcome back.
We are in section 27 or demo 27 wherein we are going to learn about Docker Compose deploy option.
So here we are going to scale the app um service which is our user management web application to three
containers.
And in addition to that we are going to front this app um service with web nginx service which will
load balance the traffic to these three app, um related containers, whatever it creates.
So let's go ahead and then review the docker-compose.yaml file and also review the nginx conf file.
And after that we'll go ahead and then start the UMS tag and verify the services.
Now let's come back to our Visual Studio Code.
And we are in section 27, our demo 27.
And in UMS tag folder we have the docker compose file.
And if you go down and see it here, volumes might be same as from our previous demo.
And this is the DB MySQL uh A related service and it is again same as our previous demo.
No changes ideally, right?
Other than uh, giving a good service name, saying DB hyphen MySQL.
And here this is app.
Um, this is the service name.
And here uh, you can see it here images user management web app v6 latest and ports 8080.
Here we are not exposing the application to our host system which means like to our local desktop.
We are only putting the container port here.
Okay.
Now why?
Because we are not accessing this service using its direct uh directly to this service.
We are going to fronting it with nginx and we are going to access it via nginx.
So when we say 8080 port that 8080 port for the host port is exposed via nginx.
So here only container port is given.
And here is the important setting which we have done here as part of this demo which is deploy replicas.
Three replicas we have created using this and depends on your DB MySQL.
So which means like first db MySQL will be started and after that app comes will be started.
Okay, so this is only for starting again.
To verify means like it is only the order it is controlling here depends on db MySQL.
In the later demos, we are going to see how to ensure that uh start this app.
Um related containers only after DB MySQL is healthy so that we are going to learn in this health checks
demo.
So we have a health checks demo there.
We are going to learn that.
But for now depends on means like first db MySQL will be started because it is depending on this and
after this this will be started.
And whatever the DB MySQL started, it might not be healthy.
Also before that only it might also get started.
So there is a bug here, but I introduced it wontedly.
But here application will take care of retries to the database till it is available.
So for that purpose we are not getting any error so far.
If we want to fix that type of things directly in Docker compose that we will learn in health checks.
Okay.
And here currently it is not going to throw any errors because in our application we have taken care
of uh doing a DB retry till it is available.
So now let us come back.
Standard environmental variables which we have seen from our previous demos.
Only thing is because we have changed the service name as DB hyphen MySQL.
Here.
Also we have provided the host name of the database as db hyphen MySQL.
So rest all is same as is.
So we have reviewed app ums and db, MySQL and volumes.
These are same as previous demos.
Slightly naming was changed, but now here comes the important thing web nginx service.
Right?
So here we are using the docker image nginx latest and container name.
We are saying it as ums nginx and now ports you can see 8080 is the host port and 8080 is the listen
photon container.
Also.
So we are saying container port is 8080.
And also uh, whatever the port we are exposing on the host machine or local desktop is 8080.
And this one you say depends on app UMS, which means after app UMS is started, then only web nginx
will be started.
We have discussed depends on in detail that it is not verifying the health check, it is just doing
a order of execution.
How the containers need to be started.
That is all.
Now let us go to the volume and here in volumes we are saying from our local desktop we have something
called Nginx.conf from our local directory.
That one we are mapping it to in the container, etc. nginx nginx.conf.
So let us see.
Now that's about volumes inside this web.
Nginx okay, we are not creating a separate container, but whatever is present here write dot nginx.conf
right that will be mapped inside this container's nginx.conf in aeecae nginx path.
Now let's see what is present inside this.
So we have successfully reviewed the complete docker-compose.yaml.
We will also review the Nginx.conf.
Right.
So here you can see this is a standard nginx.conf wherein you are saying server listen on 8080.
So if you go to the docker compose, your container port right for your nginx is 8080, because you
have given here less than 8080.
And you are saying location slash anything coming with route context via browser should be sent to app
UMS.
What is app UMS?
App UMS is a service, right?
So to this service.
So whatever is coming, whoever is accessing this respective nginx application should be proxied to
app UMS service.
So that is what is written here.
Now app UMS related information you define it here okay so in HTTP thing.
So you say upstream and app ums and provide your information server app UMS colon 8080.
You are sending the request to app UMS 8080 port and that upstream whatever app UMS name you have defined
you are providing it.
Here you can give any name here.
So call colon ABC something like this and then take this and put it here.
That is all.
Okay.
So the uh there is no specific thing like a again here.
Also it should be app ums for good naming convention.
I try to use it, but here is the important thing.
Whatever you have given here server app ums, this should match with this one.
Whatever you have defined app ums.
So that is the key thing.
And with port 8080 you can see it here.
Our app UMS container port is 8080.
The same thing we have provided here.
So that's about uh, Docker related means.
Like how from nginx to Docker containers, how we are proxy passing okay.
And now app ums will be resolved internally in the Docker and it will resolve to the container IP.
And here you can see we have defined resolver 120 700 11, which is nothing but Dockers internal DNS
resolver configures the upstream block to resolve the service name to multiple IPS.
So for that purpose we have defined it.
And here you can see app UMS will resolve to the containers automatically.
And this is another important setting which we have put provided here.
Right.
So this is client IP address for session persistence.
Right.
So because you are using a web application so you are using a web application which is a user management
web app Java web application and a login flow is also involved inside this.
So when you are accessing that, when this respective nginx is doing a proxy pass to that respective
web application.
So it should not switch the, uh, request from one app container to another app container.
So for that purpose you can enable the you can enable this IP hash settings.
So it provides a session persistence for that respective session.
Which means that session will stick to that respective back end app tier.
Right.
Means like app server or our app container.
So for that purpose we need to do that.
So what we will do is by disabling it, we will just test how nginx is going to load balance using this
API, what we are going to access.
And after that, when we are logging into our user management web app using nginx, then we need to
enable this restart the web server and then test it.
So all the things are we have documented in detail.
So we will do that step by step and understand in detail.
So in this lecture we have successfully reviewed our docker-compose.yaml file and also nginx dot conf.
In our next lecture we will go ahead and then start the UMS tag and verify everything.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-03: Verify application by testing from browser and cleanup ---

Welcome back.
In previous lecture we have reviewed the docker compose YAML file and also we have reviewed the Nginx.conf.
Now let us go ahead and then start the UMS tag and verify the services.
So we are going to verify using Docker compose PS to see whether all containers are running.
And also we are going to verify the logs for all three services using docker compose logs and for all
three containers under this service app UMS, we are going to use Docker logs to verify the logs for
each container.
So now let us go back here to the terminal and we go to the demo 27 docker compose deploy.
And inside that we will go to UMS tag.
And there you have the Nginx.conf and docker compose YAML file.
So we will say docker compose up and then hyphen d and it will first create the network.
Then create the volume.
Then create the ums MySQL db.
After that it will create the app UMS related three containers and after that ums nginx.
So order of starting the containers you have controlled using depends on or depends on related argument
here.
So you can see depends on.
So it will start with the for db MySQL.
First it will start because it doesn't have any dependency or written any dependency.
It need to wait.
So it will start first.
And after that app UMS will start only after db MySQL is started and web nginx will start only after
app UMS is started.
So this will start first and this will start second and this will start third and only it's the start
order we are controlling as we discussed in the introduction.
But uh, it will not wait for these things to be healthy and that we will define in our health checks
demo.
And then after that what happens is app UMS Albums will start only after DB.
MySQL is healthy and web nginx will start only after app UMS is healthy.
Container started and those are responding and health checks are passing.
Then only web nginx will be started so that the traffic from the internet can be allowed after web nginx
is started.
Something like that, right?
So now let us go back and then move to the next step of reviewing the logs.
So now we will say docker compose logs and then we will start with ums mysql db.
Right.
So that is a container name.
But the service name here is db hyphen MySQL.
So this service related logs we will verify in the same way you can see the container name for this
container.
These are the logs it is showing in the same way it is.
Verify the logs for app ums docker.
And then we need to say docker compose Logs and then you will go here and get the service name app UMS.
You will say app UMS and you can see the logs here for app UMS.
Three app ums.
Uh one.
Everything will be there here.
So let me go up.
App UMS one and app UMS uh two.
Everything will be there.
All the things will be displayed directly.
But what we can do is we can specify for specific containers what are the logs.
So we can say docker PS and you can see it here when we run the docker PS command this is nginx related
container.
And this is UMS tag app UMS one.
This is UMS tag app UMS three and this is UMS tag app UMS two.
So these are the things.
So if you want you can specify and verify that respective container.
You can say docker logs and app ums, uh ums tag app UMS one and its logs will be displayed here in
the same way.
These are the locks for one.
And in the same way, if you want to verify for two, you can see this way.
So like this.
You can see the app UMS logs for specific containers and for nginx you can say docker compose logs and
then also provide the service name for nginx which is web nginx.
So we'll go here and provide web nginx.
And this is the ums.
Nginx is the container name.
It's logs.
We can see it here.
So that's about verifying the logs.
Now verify the load balancing how it is working.
So this is a sample.
Hello one related service present inside this UMS application.
So if I say curl and then you can see hello world from so and so container it is showing and app version
is v1.
So if you see uh docker PS you have multiple containers available here which is app UMS one three and
then two.
Right.
So it said here it is ending with 75.
Ending with 75 means the request went to app.
UM's three request went to app UM's three, ending with 75.
In the same way, if I run the curl one more time right and the request went to some, ending with D
13, that is the container ID.
So if I run the command docker PS or we can go here right?
So we can go to our Docker desktop and go to containers.
And here you can see app um's one two and then three.
And now let us come back here and I say the curl.
Or we can go to the browser and say localhost 8080 and then slash hello one.
And I can make it bigger.
So hello world from container it is going to D 13.
So which means the request went to D 13 app UM's one container.
It went in.
Now if I try to refresh it it is going to 668 A, which means this one.
660 8 a.m. comes two one more time.
If I refresh and we can try to refresh it and it will go to different container, right?
It is caching.
But anyway it should go or what you can try is we can go here.
And what I have done is I have written a loop here.
So access your application every one second, run it in a while loop and you can put it here.
And you can see the requests are going to different different containers A to 7513 80 to 7513.
So which means requests are load balancing across three containers.
Whatever are present here.
App comes one, app comes two, app comes three.
So you are accessing your nginx endpoint with port 8080 with slash hello one.
And requests are load balancing here.
So that is about an a very high level right.
So but this is for a hello One stateless service, you are able to do that.
So this is a stateless service simple stateless service, whatever you are accessing and the requests
are load balancing.
But our user management web application is a stateful service, which means it needs to persist its
request to one specific container.
Even though we have three different containers, it need to persist to one specific container.
So for that purpose, what we need to do is in this respective step zero seven in the Nginx.conf, you
have the IP hash which enables the session persistence using client IP address.
So we can go here and go to our Nginx.conf and then uncomment this right.
So you can uncomment IP hash in your Nginx.conf.
Right.
And then you can restart your docker compose using docker compose restart web nginx.
That way what happens is after changing that after changing in your local system at this location in
UMS tag folder nginx enabling IP hash for session persistence, right?
Uh, now let us go here and say docker compose restart web nginx.
So you can restart a specific service using docker compose restart command with that service name.
So here the service name is web nginx.
So you have learned the command docker compose restart and then that service name.
Now what happens is if we try to access our application it should persist.
Before that.
What we can do is docker compose and then uh PS and docker exec hyphen I t.
And this is the ums nginx right.
And it is up from 30s.
So which means it just now restarted.
And this is the uh container name.
We need to get the container name here, which is UMS.
Nginx is the container name so we can connect and we can say slash bin slash slash uh docker exec hyphen
it ums enginex.
And if it is not ssh.
So here the command is err I missed it.
And you connect it to that container and you will go to etc. nginx uh etc..
Nginx conf easy.
What is the path etc. nginx s only etc. nginx folder and inside that you have the nginx.conf.
When you when you say cat nginx.conf, you can see IP hash is uh enabled now.
So why?
Because you are doing a volume here, which means whatever you change in your local directory, it will
be changed automatically in the container because it is acting as a volume.
Now let us come back here and access your UMS web application, which means we can say localhost 8080.
And let me go down and we can say admin 101 and password 101.
And this should go to one specific container.
And from there it should persist on that specific container.
And you can create users and then even log out.
So we have successfully also tested it in detail.
And if you want you can go to your DB and then verify the users and all those things.
You can do it right.
So if you want you can also verify the container to container communication using service names, which
we have done in our previous demo.
So for UMS tac app which means like our app UMS related container.
So this container app UMS related containers created using this Docker image.
All the.
Net tools are present inside.
That means like Nslookup and all those things.
So if you go here and if you go to the UMS app source code and in the Docker file of that.
Right.
So it should have a v6 Docker file multi-stage with tools.
So when I'm building this I have ensured that all the tools were installed inside it.
Okay so one is dns utils ip utils telnet curl and then MySQL client.
So which means whatever the Docker image you have here, which is uh, no, let me come back here.
Here.
Right.
Which is a user management web app v6.
All the tools will be inside it.
So you can connect to that container and verify with Nslookup command.
So we can go here and come out of this nginx and exit and clear and docker PS and docker exec hyphen
I t and ums.
This is the container name right UMS tag app one or app two.
Anything you can take okay.
And then slash bin slash sh.
And you are in the container and we can say clear, and here we can say NS lookup.
And you can start with web hyphen.
You can go here and get the service names clearly.
So this is the web nginx related service.
So let us see what happens.
It is resolving to one 7218 zero six.
So if you want you can go to your Docker desktop here and go to that UMS nginx and go to the inspect
and go at the end and verify the IP address.
One 7218 zero six so our ums nginx ip.
It is resolving accordingly with the service name whatever is present here.
Now let us do the app UMS right.
So we'll go here and say Nslookup and app UMS.
And it is resolving to three IP addresses because we have three containers here.
So container one two and then three.
So now if you go here which is 345 are the IP addresses.
It is resolving to because you have three replicas here.
Now let us go here and go to those containers.
Any one container will go.
So one container will go and inspect.
And at the end you can see the IP address is one 7218 zero three.
So which is this one.
Right.
So app UMS is sending the request to any of the three containers using name resolution.
It is resolving to three IP addresses.
That is about app UMS.
And next is we can go to our DB MySQL service and say Nslookup and db MySQL.
And it is resolving to one 7218 zero two.
So we can go here to containers and go to UMS MySQL db and go to inspect and go at the end and you will
find it is one 7218 zero two.
So that is about it.
Which means like we have successfully successfully reviewed all the things from DNS names perspective
also.
Now we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
So you can run docker compose down or docker compose down hyphen v.
So I will try to use docker compose down hyphen v so that all the things will be removed.
So let me exit from this container.
And I am in my local desktop now.
So you can see we are at the UMS tag.
I can just say docker dump docker compose down hyphen v and this should remove the ums nginx container
and all the three app containers and also MySQL db container and its volume and its network.
And if I go to desktop here in containers, nothing is there.
And in volumes nothing is there.
So that is about it.
So we have successfully removed the containers volumes all at a time using docker compose down hyphen
v as the command.
So this completes the demo about docker compose with deploy option.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker compose Networks ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to define networks in our Docker compose file.
So we are going to define front end and back end networks.
So again we are going to use the same three tier deployment nginx UMS web app and MySQL as the things
in three tiers web app and DB tiers.
So let us see what exactly we are going to do now.
So here if you see let's start with the DB tier and in DB tier before going to DB tier first.
What we will do is in Docker compose, we will define the networks and we will define two networks here.
One is front end network and back end network.
So if you see the previous demos right.
So whenever the service is created, when whenever you have run the docker compose up, it has created
a network called UMS stack default one network and all the three services, whatever you have seen all
the three services app, UMS, DB, MySQL and web nginx all is present in the single network, which
means all are able to communicate to each other, right?
Which means from web nginx.
Also you will be able to communicate to database.
So it is a security threat right.
So you are opening your connections from web to DB very openly in a single network.
But instead of that using Docker networks, you can effectively design wherein from your web tier you
will not be able to access your DB tier only via app tier.
Only you can access your DB tier.
So such type of designs you can do using Docker Network.
So let us see what we are going to do here.
So we will define two networks here.
One is front end network and second is back end network.
And if you see here db MySQL we will point it to the back end network.
And after that we will go to app tier.
And in app tier we will in the network section we will say both front end and back end.
So from this app comes it will be able to communicate to DB MySQL because it is in the back end network.
In the same way it also has the front end network.
And here also you can see in web nginx you have the front end.
Network added.
So from front end network from nginx nginx can communicate to.
This app comes because this app comes is present in front end network also.
So.
App tier is connected to front end network and app tier is connected to.
Also the back end network.
So which means from app comes you can send the.
Traffic to DB MySQL to access your database.
And from web nginx you can send the request to app comes to access your application.
So this can communicate to both.
Tiers.
But this web cannot access DB tier directly.
Your database is 100% secure.
So this web tier even doesn't know what is DB tier network at all.
You need to only it can only access the app tier related applications.
So that's what isolation of uh isolation isolating our applications using Docker networks.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement it and understand it in detail.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker compose networks demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 28 or section 28.
Let's go ahead and then implement this networks demo.
So here I have given whatever we have discussed in the introductory sections how the communication happens
and those things.
We are going to go ahead and then practically implement.
So let's review the Docker compose YAML file for the same thing.
So we'll go to section 28.
And in networks demo we'll go to docker-compose.yaml file.
And here you can see at the end you can see we have defined the network.
So this is the same Docker compose file from previous demo.
But we have added some things extra.
One is we have added networks front end and back end.
And we have associated this respective db MySQL to back end network.
And in the same way this app comes to both front end and back end networks in the same way.
Web nginx only to front end network.
Now let's go ahead and then uh, start.
The, um, stack will go here and run the command docker compose up D.
Right.
So we'll go here and come out of this, um, stack and we'll go to demo 28.
And here you have networks demo right here.
And here we will say docker compose up and then hyphen D.
And this should create the networks for us.
And after that it should also create the containers.
So you can see it has created two networks for us um stack back end and um stack front end.
And after that it has created the UMS stack my DB, and after that it created a container db container.
And here we have given only two replicas.
So it has started two app UMS related containers.
And it also started the UMS Enginex container.
So now let's come back here and then verify the networks.
Right.
So we can say Docker network And LZ and you can see it has created front end and back end networks.
And you can also inspect those networks using the Docker network inspect command and then provide your
uh, network name.
So um, stack back end.
And this is the network information for the back end network.
So this is the complete data about it.
So at what time it has created and its gateway information and subnet information and all the things
what all containers it connected to and all the information.
So this is the back end back end uh network.
And it has something called UMS tag back end as the name.
And if you go down here in the container section, it is having us mysql db ums, mysql db ums tag app
UMS two and UMS tag app UMS one.
So whatever the back end network it has created, it has the containers created using app ums Ms. and
db MySQL that is for back end network.
In the same way, if we try to if we say Docker network and LZ and Docker network inspect and provide
the front end network, right.
So when you inspect the front end network.
So it should have the container.
So if you go to the containers section you have the UMS nginx which is front end.
And also both app UMS two and app UMS one.
Both the uh app related containers also associated here, but IP addresses are different here it is
using one 7219 zero three and one 7219 zero two.
Right.
And if you go up and then verify the networks for this one, which is nothing, but for back end, it
is 172, 18 zero four and 1803.
So one 7218 is back end network and one 7219 is front end network.
The IP segment I am saying here okay, now let me clear this and let us go back here and verify connectivity
between containers from web nginx.
So let's go to our web nginx.
And then from there try to connect to app VMs and also try to connect to DB MySQL.
You should have only connection to app ums and web.
Nginx will not have connection to DB.
So if you see if you connect to any container inside this service web nginx and try to ping apt here,
it should work.
But when you try to ping DB here, it should fail.
So that's the test we are doing now.
So let's come back here and then start by connecting to UMS nginx container.
So we'll go here and we'll say docker uh docker PS and this is the ums nginx container name ums hyphen
nginx.
So we'll go here docker exec hyphen I t and you will say ums hyphen nginx and slash bin slash s h.
And you are inside that.
And if you want you can run bash and then inside it you need to install some tools.
Okay.
So to run that okay you can run pink.
If you say pink, uh, it is not there.
Okay.
And if you say nslookup, it is not there inside this.
So for that purpose you can install those tools using apt get update.
And after that you can run uh IP utils ping and DNS utils.
These two things can be installed inside this to test it okay.
Right.
So I apt get install hyphen y and ip utils ping and dns utils will be installed.
Now you can see it here.
It is taking time and soon it will be installed.
Packages were installed.
So if I say if I say ping now it should work okay.
And if I say nslookup also it will not say command not found.
Okay, now let's come back to this web nginx container and start with doing the things pinging for web
nginx app ums and db MySQL.
All three services uh, we'll go here and say what happened?
I will say ping and say ping web nginx, which is the same service.
So it should work.
Okay.
And if I say ping app ums, this is the service name right.
So we can go here.
So this should be the service name and ping app UMS is also working.
We are getting the response.
And if I say ping db MySQL right.
And it is saying name or service not known, which means it is not even able to resolve.
It doesn't know anything about the back end network.
So from web nginx it is not able to from web nginx.
It is not able to communicate to DB tier.
When you try to access DB MySQL nothing is working.
So if you go here and if I say nslookup and if I say web nginx, it is resolving to one 7219 zero four
and if I say app ums, it should resolve to two IP addresses 1902 and 19.
Zero three.
Even if you go to our Docker desktop here and go to containers and go to app um, one and go to Unix
and you can see it here, you have one 7219 zero three right.
And also 19 zero two.
Two containers are there and two container related endpoints.
You can see it here.
So it has the um with from um stack front end.
It has the IP address and from um stack back end.
Also it has the IP address.
And currently it is resolving to front end because you are pinging it from the web nginx related server.
Or you are trying to test the connectivity from web nginx related server.
So from here you are testing.
So it is giving two apt.
Here it is using the uh gateway, whatever it is trying to communicate with the front end network.
So that is the thing.
So now let us come back here.
So we have tested both the, uh, ping and Nslookup for app.
Um, now if you do the Nslookup for DB MySQL, right?
It should say nothing.
Okay.
It cannot resolve.
It doesn't know anything about the DB network.
Right.
So if you want, you can also use the command to do the same thing.
So that's about verifying from web from web tier to app tier and also DB tier from this as the source
and these two as the destinations app and DB as the destinations, only the requests are going to appear
and not going to DB tier.
So that is successful.
Next is we will go to app tier and then test the same thing.
So we'll go to the next testing which is app VMs.
Verify connectivity between containers from app VMs.
So let's uh go here and exit from this container.
And we'll go here and we'll say docker PS and docker exec hyphen I t.
And you will take any of the container here from app tier which is your VMs tag app VMs two.
And you will say slash bin slash s h.
And you can also say bash and clear.
And from here if you try to ping web nginx, it should work for us.
The requests are coming.
And from here if you try to connect to DB MySQL also it should work for us.
Why?
Because it is using a UML stack back end.
So you can see the thing here ums nginx ums stack front end is the full DNS resolution here ums mysql
db dot ums tag back end is the resolution.
So from app UMS you can connect to from app UMS, you can connect to web tier, and you can also connect
to DB tier because it is integrated with both networks front end and back end.
So you can also try that using uh what you call you can use the command, uh nslookup and say uh web
nginx.
And it should resolve to front end IP address of nginx.
And in the same way you can also use db MySQL and it should resolve to one 7218 zero to the db address.
So from from our app to our container, we will be able to resolve to both the things so that we have
tested.
Now if you try to say nslookup and uh app ums, if I say app ums, let's see the result, right.
App UMS and it has 18 zero four and 18 zero three.
Now let me click on exit exit come out of it.
And we have successfully tested the connectivity from app tier to web tier and app tier two DB tier.
Verify the connectivity from DB MySQL to web and app tier so we can see it here.
From DB tier, we will test the connectivity to app tier and web tier.
So we'll go to our terminal here docker PS and docker exec hyphen I t and we'll go and then ums mysql
db ums mysql db and slash bin slash ssh.
Docker command.
Here I can see right I have spelled it wrong.
Docker.
And now if we see it here cat etc. OS release and it is a oracle VM right.
So if you go here uh, if it is Debian or Ubuntu machines, you can install ping and DNS utils using
these commands.
If it is oracle docker image you can use micro DNF to install those things.
IP utils and bind utils.
So let me run this micro DNF command and it will install the ip utils and bind utils.
And after that we can test these things.
So let's wait for it to get installed.
We can see all the necessary packages are installed.
Now we will say ping and app UMS as the service name so we can see it here.
So from Docker Compose you can see from DB MySQL.
You are trying to access app UMS and it is accessible.
So it is saying UMS stack app UMS one dot UMS stack back end.
So it is from the back end network.
It is connecting to app ums and if you want if you can try ping web, nginx web nginx as the service,
right?
So when you try that it is not even able to resolve to that service.
No ping is working.
So if you want nslookup and app ums and it is resolving to both the IP address from DB server.
So which means connectivity from DB tier two app tier exists.
And in the same way if I say Nslookup web nginx and it is not able to resolve from DB tier, you will
not be able to connect to web tier.
So we have successfully tested the communications from web to app and DB, and from app to web and DB
and from DB to app and web.
So all the communications we have tested and everything is good means like we have created completely
a isolated networks here only from web.
We will be communicating to app and from DB we will be able to communicate to app only from app you
can communicate to both web and DB.
So that is the thing.
So from web to db is not possible.
So now let us go ahead and then say docker compose down and then hyphen v.
So we will also remove all the related volumes also created as part of this demo.
So you can see it first removed the nginx, then app related containers, then database and volume and
front end network and back end network.
So everything is cleaned up.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Compose HEALTHCHECKS ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to implement health checks in docker compose file.
So for all the three services which is db, mysql app UMS and also for web nginx, we are going to implement
the health check health check option or health check setting.
So now let us go back to our Visual Studio Code here.
And we are in section 29 health checks.
And here in the Docker-compose.yaml in health checks demo.
So we are going to review one after the other.
So first thing is db MySQL for db MySQL how to do a health check is using the MySQL admin ping command.
So we'll say health check.
And in the test we will say command and MySQL admin and MySQL admin with the arguments as ping.
And in addition to that, uh, because this is a secure database, we also need to connect to the database.
So we will say hyphen h and host is localhost.
And hyphen u.
And then route as the username and hyphen p Dbpassword one one as the password root password for this
database.
So we will implement the health check block here to ensure that if this means like it will check every
uh 30s whether your DB is healthy or not, and if it is not healthy, it will.
It will mark the database as unhealthy.
If it is healthy, it is going to mark it as healthy.
And now in the same way for app UMS also, you will have something called health API defined in the
code.
So you will try to access that using curl command.
So command curl and hyphen f and http localhost colon 8080 slash.
Health and health is your apps health check endpoint which you are trying to access.
So that is about uh, calling the health API inside this user management web application.
And it's a public API.
You can access it for that.
Login is not required.
And in addition to that in our web server nginx, also we will have something called nginx health as
the endpoint which you can access using command curl hyphen f and localhost colon 8080 nginx.
Health check if nginx is responding or not using this one.
So for that purpose in the nginx.conf right here in the server, listen 8080 and this one you have earlier
Proxypass two app UML for the complete route context.
So on top of that we will define something called nginx health.
And we will say that a slash nginx hyphen health as the context.
And same thing we are calling it here you can see slash nginx hyphen health and that one we are going
to return.
Nginx is healthy and we are going to add a content header text slash plain.
So that is the thing.
We are going to add a nginx endpoint in our nginx.conf and a static response.
Nginx is healthy.
So if this application is accessible which means nginx is healthy.
And in addition to that, if you want to enable nginx status, you can also enable and see how many
requests came to this respective.
This is a nginx status is a module right?
So that module if you want to enable and verify also you can verify this is optional.
But this is the important thing.
The health check page you have defined and then you are using it.
Remaining things in the nginx conf are as is.
So this completes the review of docker compose file with health checks for both for web nginx app CMS
and also for the db MySQL.
In our next lecture, let's go ahead and then execute these things and then verify.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Compose Healthchecks demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in section 29, our demo 29 which is Docker compose health checks demo.
So we have already reviewed the Nginx.conf and also docker compose YAML file with health checks included.
Now we will go ahead and then start the stack and then verify.
So we will go to our terminal here.
And we'll come out of networks demo.
And we'll go to demo 29.
Right.
And where we have the health check demo.
And here we will run.
You can see you have the Docker compose file and nginx.conf we will say docker compose up hyphen d.
And now it should start the things.
And immediately we can run the command docker PS or docker compose PS.
And you can see their health is in the starting state currently.
See health is in starting state.
Soon it will become healthy.
So it is still in the starting state.
Let's wait for it and it is still in the starting state.
Let's run docker PS one more time and you can see all the three services are healthy ums Ingenix it
is healthy UMS stack app, UMS healthy and UMS.
MySQL DB was also healthy.
So like this.
You can implement the health checks for our applications using Docker Compose.
Now let us go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created as part of this demo.
So this is a very simple demo.
How to implement health checks for our applications using Docker Compose.
So I will go ahead and then say Docker compose down.
And then with volume we are going to remove.
So it should remove all the containers here and volume and also networks.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Compose startup order with conditions ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to implement startup order with conditional use case in Docker compose.
So what exactly that means right.
So if you see here app comes and here you have set depends on DB MySQL.
But in addition to that you are also going to define a condition here.
So earlier when you said depends on and db MySQL first db MySQL will be started.
Only after that db MySQL is started, then app comes will be started.
It is only for starting the services.
Okay, but important thing here is you want to start the app related containers only after dbms db MySQL
is healthy.
So for that purpose you can define a condition stating service underscore healthy.
So in this case what happens is once the db MySQL is started and once that container is in the healthy
status, after that only this app ums start will trigger and once the app UMS is started, right?
And it will connect to the DB and also come online.
So means like it's a sequential order where how you want to start your applications.
In the same way, if you go to the web tier here for a web service right here, you said depends on
app comes.
So app comes is the service and condition service healthy.
So after app UMC started and it is marked as healthy using this health check right then only this web
nginx will start.
So first DB will start.
And once it is healthy then only app ums will start.
And once app UMS is healthy then only web nginx will be started.
So like this.
The startup order of your services in your Docker compose you can control using depends on with conditions
right?
It depends on.
You can define conditions and with service healthy option you can control the entire startup order of
your application.
So I'll see you in the next lecture with a practical demo for this.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Compose startup order with condition demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 30.
Docker compose startup order demo.
So here we are going to add the following things.
Means like for web nginx service we have added the depends on argument with app comes as the service
and stating service healthy.
So which means when app comes is up and running and which is marked as healthy, then only web nginx
service will be started in the same way.
For in app comes also you have defined db mysql service healthy.
So when db MySQL is started and it is healthy, then only app comes, containers will get started.
So let us go ahead and then test this entire thing.
Right?
So we will go back to our terminal here and come out of health checks demo.
And we will enter into demo 30 Docker compose startup order.
And here you have a folder startup order demo.
So inside that you have the Docker-compose.yml file and Nginx.conf.
So we will say here docker compose up and then hyphen D.
And now it should start all the things and all the things are created now.
So let's wait for it so you can see container ums.
MySQL db is in the waiting state and once that is started then it will move on to the next thing.
So let's wait for it.
It is in the waiting state and once that is healthy, it will move to the next one.
And once the second one is healthy, then it will move to the third one in the next terminal.
If you want we can say docker PS and then only MySQL container is getting started.
You can see it is in the starting state, right?
So other containers not yet started earlier.
Now you can see it here ums MySQL db is in the healthy state and now the next one is getting started.
So only now two containers.
You can see this is one and this is one.
MySQL is healthy and your user management web app is getting started.
So now let's wait for it.
And once that is started and that is healthy, then it will move to creating the UMS nginx container.
So service is free and now you can see it here.
Two things are healthy right.
Two things are healthy.
And third one is starting.
You can also see them here.
Third one is started automatically right docker compose up hyphen.
And if you want you can run the command docker compose PS and you can see the third one also.
Now it is in the healthy status.
So this we have you can see here very clearly what happened.
So what happened is all the three containers will be created.
But first DB MySQL will become healthy.
Second app UMS will become healthy and third web nginx will become healthy.
So start happens sequentially.
DB MySQL app ums and web nginx.
Right.
So even if when you run the docker compose PS hyphen A, you can see those things in order, right?
And live traffic will be allowed only from the nginx and nginx is up only after both the db mysql and
app UMS is healthy.
So you can see you can control the startup order of your services in Docker compose file using this
option, which is depends on with condition service healthy.
So this completes the demo about startup order.
With conditions we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
We can say docker compose down and then hyphen v so that whatever the volume created also will get removed.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker compose PROFILES ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker compose profiles.
So let's understand what exactly profiles mean.
So these Docker compose profiles help us in customizing services for our for different environments.
So for example like we can enable specific services in our Docker compose file at specific need.
So selective service activation is the key feature for these profiles.
So we use these profiles to enable or disable specific service based on your environment or use case.
So if we understand that with a practical example it will be easy.
So if you see it here this is a service named NetSuite.
So I have given some name here.
You can give any name.
So here in this Docker image you will have lot of troubleshooting tools.
And you have we have given the name of this container as UMS NetSuite and we are saying this container
should run at infinity.
Once it is started, you can connect to that container and once you connect to the terminal of that
container, right?
What happens is there are multiple Linux tools available for you for troubleshooting.
So what we have done is we set the service name as NetSuite.
We have provided the image container name and we are saying that it need to run to infinity.
It should not be means like until and unless it is terminated it should be running this respective container.
And here is the important thing.
We said that it is profiles and it comes under debug profile.
So anything you can give name here any desired name you can give I have given my desired name as debug
and this NetSuite service will be accessible.
Means like attached to both front end and back end networks.
So you can connect to this NetSuite container.
And then from there you can troubleshoot any issues with your containers or services present in your
front end network and also in the back end network.
So now if you see it here, assign services to profiles.
Unassigned services run by default.
So what it is trying to say here is when you use the profiles argument, what happens is whatever you
have defined the service in your Docker compose file with this profiles thing, right?
That will not be started by default.
When you run docker compose up hyphen d, you need to explicitly go there and then start it like this
docker compose hyphen hyphen profile and provide your profile name and up, and then hyphen d.
Then only this service in the docker compose file will start.
So if you go back to our Visual Studio Code here and in demo 31, in profiles demo you have the Docker
compose YAML file.
So you have the web nginx, you have the app ums and you have the db MySQL.
And in addition to that you have something called a new service which is called NetSuite.
Right.
So this it is associated with profiles.
So when you say docker compose up right and only web and then app and then db will be started.
And this.
Net should service whatever the container present under this net service will not should not start okay.
Why.
It is not going to not start because it needs explicitly starting it all the default services will start,
but only services which are assigned with the profiles argument.
So those will be started by providing hyphen hyphen profile and provide the profile name.
So when you say docker compose hyphen, hyphen profile and debug and up, then what happens is this
respective service related containers will be started.
So profile assigned services start only when their profile is activated.
So if you want to stop them also you can say docker compose hyphen hyphen profile debug is the profile
name and then down and important thing here is it includes optional services for means like it is,
uh, primarily used for having the more flexibility in our Docker compose file.
So you can add these type of services which are required for troubleshooting R, which are like some,
uh, some tools where like you want to install for build process and then only be used when you want
in need, then you can define them, but you can provide the respective profile for them.
Means like add the profiles argument and give the name so that they will not get started as default
services.
They need to be explicitly started when there is a need, so activate these services as needed without
modifying the compose file.
So that's the important thing here.
So that's about very high level on a Docker compose profiles.
Let's go ahead and then practically implement it so that we will understand more about it in detail.
I will see you in the next lecture until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker compose profiles demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 31 or section 31 where we are going to learn about Docker compose profiles.
So here we have we need to review our Docker compose file where we have added this as an additional
thing from our previous demo.
So let us go back to our Visual Studio Code here.
And here is we are in section 31 Docker compose profiles and in profiles Profiles demo you can see Docker-compose.yml
file.
And you can see web app and then nginx app web app and then DB MySQL.
All these things are same as our previous demo.
Only thing which we have added is the new service here which is NetSuite, whose image we are using
is this one and container name is UMS NetSuite or regular NetSuite.
Whatever you want you can put it and entry point is sleep infinity right?
Keep the container running for manual troubleshooting so don't run it to the exit state okay?
Keep it running and then profiles debug.
You have given the name as debug profile.
You can give your desired name here.
And this is associated with both networks front end and then back end.
Now let's come back here and start the stack.
And we will go here right to the terminal.
We will come out of startup order demo.
We will go to demo 31 here Docker compose profiles.
And inside that inside that what happened inside that we have something called profiles demo folder.
We will go inside that.
And here we have the Docker-compose.yml and nginx.conf.
So we will say docker compose up hyphen D.
And let's wait for these services to get created.
We have also implemented the startup order now.
So which means first MySQL db will be started, then after it will start the app UMS one, and then
after that it will start the nginx.
So let's wait for all these things to get started.
But if you see here you don't see any container which is starting with whose name is UMS NetSuite,
it is not getting started.
Why?
Because you have provided profiles as debug, so it will be started only when you provide the things,
uh, uh, specifically.
Right.
Stop.
And where is it?
You can come up here and when you provide docker compose and hyphen, hyphen profile debug and up.
So when you do this only then it is going to start.
So you need to explicitly start it.
And when stopping it also when you say docker compose down all the things will be stopped.
But whatever the started thing with profile will not be removed or stopped.
So you need to explicitly stop it.
So whatever is present in uh profile section means like for whatever the service you have added the
profiles.
Those need to be explicitly started and explicitly, uh, stopped and then removed.
So that is what we are going to do now.
So we have started the stack and it is coming up online.
So both all the things are healthy.
So if you run the Docker PS.
Finally, nginx is starting, so let's wait for that also to become healthy.
Right.
And now you can see all three things are healthy, but only you have three containers.
Fourth one is not available.
Now we can go here and run the command.
This one to do the docker compose hyphen, hyphen profile and provide the profile name and say app and
then hyphen d docker compose.
Right.
Uh hyphen hyphen profile.
And the thing is debug as the name of it.
You can say debug and up and then hyphen d.
Now what happens is it is trying to download the NetSuite container.
And once NetSuite Docker image and once it is downloaded it will go ahead and then start that Docker
image.
So let's wait for the Docker image to get downloaded and start it so we can see it here.
Um, as NetSuite is started now, so it is uh, started only on a specific request where you said that
docker compose, hyphen, hyphen, profile debug up and then hyphen d.
So if you want you can connect.
You can run the command docker PS.
And you can see this is the container which we have started just now.
So if you want docker exec hyphen it UMS NetSuite is the container name and slash bin slash sh.
And if you want you can run bash and clear.
And here you can run anything.
So you can say ping web nginx.
Right.
All the many tools are auto installed and ready inside this.
Or you can say Nslookup and app ums because you have connected it to both the front end and back end
networks.
You can do anything the testing for those respective containers directly.
So instead of installing the tools inside those respective containers like in app or web or in DB MySQL,
you can you can use the all, all, all tools installed container.
And from that container you can troubleshoot the network connectivity or any other things related to
other containers.
So that is what we are doing here.
So that's about, uh, this respective profiles demo.
Now, what important thing we need to verify here is now if I say docker compose down hyphen v it means
like we remove with volumes.
So what happens.
It is removing um nginx.
It has removed UMS tag app UMS one and mysql db volume and network is still not removed okay because
it is used by other services also.
So now if you say docker PS you can see this Nikola.
This NetSuite container is still running.
You need to manually remove it.
So to remove it we need to say docker compose, hyphen, hyphen profile debug and you should say down.
And then that will be removed manually.
So let's wait for it to remove.
We can see it is removed now.
So if I say docker PS or PS hyphen here no containers here.
Everything is removed.
Completes the demo.
About docker compose profiles.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Compose LINKS ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker compose links.
So let's understand what exactly are these links in default networking behavior in Docker.
Right.
So when we run services using Docker compose it automatically creates a default network for our application.
And all services are connected to this network and can reach each other using their service names.
So this we have seen in our previous demos.
Also like if you see app ums can be accessed from web, nginx and web nginx can be accessed from app
UMS before defining specific networks.
Right.
So now because it creates a default network and in addition to that, communication without links is
like using the app UMS and then web, uh, web, nginx, whatever the names we have, right without
links you the how it is going to work is you access your service names.
Right.
So example like you have the DB MySQL service name and that you have given in the DB hostname field
here using service names we access it right.
So without links.
Now with links what happens?
We are going to see purpose of links.
The links option is used only to create additional aliases or host names for a service.
So example you have a DB MySQL service here right?
So let us go to the links section here.
And in links demo open the docker compose YAML file.
And if you come down here this is the DB MySQL service.
And this using this name you can call it in your app UMS.
But if you want to call it with a different name, right.
So how you are going to do that in that respective service from which you want to call the DB MySQL
service with a different name there you can define the links section here.
So here in app UMS you can define a link section here links argument.
And then for DB MySQL service you can call it as my ums db or for that same db MySQL service you can
call it as some.
My db db.
So whatever the desired names you want for this db MySQL service, you can give it here.
And accordingly you can update your hostname.
Also here instead of db MySQL you can give my ums, db my db db, whatever you want you can give and
inside the application also when you are writing the code and there if you are given a different name
there and then it is hard coded somewhere or whatever it is using the links, you can give those names
here, right?
So which means the advantage of using it is like you can give alternate names for your service using
this links option.
And very important thing to remember is it does not enable communication.
It only provides alternative names by which a service can be reached from another service.
That is all.
And in addition to that, in the following example you can see for the db MySQL we have given two alternate
names, my ums db and my db db.
And one very important thing which we need to remember about these links is links is a old technology
but still used and aliases is the latest now and will be discussed in the next demo in detail.
But we can use links and aliases.
That is fine.
Anything is fine.
But on a high level note these are legacy and new is available and you can use latest which is aliases.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this in our next lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Compose LINKS demo ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to implement practically docker compose links.
We are in section 32 or demo 32.
So we have already reviewed the docker compose file as part of introduction to this section.
So we can go here.
And this is the docker compose file which is present in 32 docker compose links section in links demo.
And here if you go down.
So we have added the for app um service.
We have added the links db mysql mim as db db mysql my db db.
Right.
So which means this db mysql service can be accessed using the name my um as db or my db db.
Now let's go ahead and then deploy it and then test it.
So we will go and then start the stack.
So we'll go to CD links demo and run the command docker compose up D.
So we will go here come out of profiles demo and go to demo 32 Docker Compose links and we will go to
links demo.
And here we have the docker compose YAML file and nginx.conf.
We will say docker compose up hyphen d.
And again as we have implemented a startup order with conditions right.
So it is going to start the services in a sequential order, and it is going to take a little bit of
time.
UMS MySQL db will be first started and after that the second container will be started.
And after that the UMS nginx container will be started.
So let's wait for them to get started.
We can see all things are started and all are also healthy.
So we can say docker compose PS or docker PS and we can see the all three containers are started so
you can see healthy.
And finally nginx is getting started.
It is in the starting state.
And this UMS app one also started.
Okay, so it is in the healthy state.
So now what we are going to do is we are going to connect to our UMS tag app UMS one container, which
is a where we have added the links, we have added the links for this respective service, which means
whatever the container created for this, we are going to connect to that container.
And there we are going to see from that container we are able to reach DB MySQL using these alternative
names.
So that is what we are going to do.
So we will go here and clear docker PS and all are healthy now UMS nginx is also healthy and app also
healthy and also DB also healthy.
This is the container name for app copy docker exec hyphen I t and then slash bin slash sh.
And if you want we can run bash here.
And now if you.
Now this is the application container.
From here we need to test it.
So here I have said that if you want to install these things but these are already pre-installed in
this Docker image.
So you don't need to install anything.
So you in this Docker image you already have the ping nslookup everything is installed.
The first test is Nslookup test.
So we will say Nslookup and db.
MySQL db MySQL and see what happens.
Okay.
And it is saying that db hyphen MySQL.
Our service name is if we go here, our service name is DB hyphen MySQL and see it is resolving to one
7219 zero two.
And if you try the same with the alternative names, whatever we have defined one is my ums db and it
is also resolving to the same IP address 172 1902 and also search for my DB.
DB also run the command and nslookup my db db and it is also resolving to one 7219 zero two.
So that said observation here is db mysql, my ums, db my dev db all resolve to the same IP.
If you want to do telnet or ping, also you can do so.
We will do one telnet and then one ping here.
Okay.
So we will go here and I will say ping and my dev DB and it is pinging it to ums Mysqldb dot ums tag
back end container.
Right.
And it is one 7219 zero two.
In the same way, if I want I can do telnet for one thing.
So telnet my ums db 3306 and the port is open.
It is working as expected.
Okay means like it is accessible.
And in addition to that, if we want we can also say dig my ums db.
And it is also you can see resolving to one 7219 zero to all the things, whatever available tools we
tried to do it.
So that is the thing.
Now we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
Come out of this app container.
Right.
And then we are in Linux demo section and we will say docker compose down and then hyphen V also to
remove the volume it has created.
So this completes the Linux demo in Docker compose.
In our next demo we will focus on aliases demo I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Compose ALIASES ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker compose aliases.
So these aliases declare alternative host names for the service on the network.
So these are network scoped.
So other containers on the same network can use either the service name or an alias to connect to one
of the service containers.
So if you see here right so we have the networks defined in our app UM's front end and back end networks
means like this app UMS is associated with front end network and back end network.
And inside them means like inside the front end.
You have given the aliases for this app UMS service as UMS app and dev UMS app and for back end right
means like for the containers which is in the app which is associated with back end network.
They can access it as my spring app or my API services.
So aliases are network scoped.
The same service can have different aliases on different networks.
So in the back end network, the containers which are attached to the back end network, they can access
the same app EMI service with these two names and the containers which are attached to the front end
network they can access with UMS app and dev UMS app.
So how we are going to test it?
So if you we will connect to web nginx which is a front end, uh, front end network associated service
web nginx.
And from there, if you try to access these two things, it should resolve.
But these two things should not be resolved in the same way.
If you go to the MySQL DB MySQL service.
So for that service only the back end is associated from there.
If you access this app UMS service with these two names, it should be accessible my spring app and
my API services.
But when you try to access with UMS app or dev UMS app, it should not be accessible.
So these things we are going to test it practically now.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Compose ALIASES demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 33 or section 33 where we are going to implement Docker compose aliases concept in a
practical way.
So we will go back to our Visual Studio Code and review the docker-compose.yaml we are going to implement.
So let's go back here to our Visual Studio Code.
And we are in section 33.
And here we have the aliases demo.
And inside that we have the docker-compose.yaml file.
And in this docker compose YAML file no changes in web nginx or even in db MySQL right in db mysql service.
But in this app um service.
So if you go to the network section in front end, you have given aliases U-m's app and dev, UM's app,
and in backend aliases.
You have given my spring app and my API services.
So which means in the front end these two names should be accessible from our web.
Nginx Bank service, and in the back end these two names should be accessible from DB.
MySQL.
Because db MySQL is associated with back end network and web, nginx is associated with front end network.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this.
So we are going to go to aliases demo and also run the command docker compose up hyphen D.
So we will go to our terminal here, come out of links demo and will go to demo 33 and go to aliases
demo folder clear LRS.
You can see docker compose YAML file and nginx.conf docker compose up hyphen d.
And let's wait for the services to get started.
And as the sequential starting of services startup order is defined, it will take a minute to completely
start these services.
We can see it here.
All are healthy now.
And finally this is also start.
We can see it here.
Now our nginx is also healthy, right?
UMS nginx.
Now let's go back here.
And from web nginx verify connectivity to app UMS using aliases.
Okay.
So now we'll go here clear and docker exec hyphen it ums nginx is the container name.
And I will say bin slash sh.
And if you want we can run bash here.
And you need to execute these things.
Okay.
IP utils ping and DNS utils.
So let's wait for it to get installed.
And next command is this one.
So let me run these things.
And once these are installed we'll go ahead and then test ping our nslookup.
Any of these things is fine.
So let's wait for it.
Here are all the packages got installed.
Let me click on clear.
We are in the web nginx container.
From there first we will ping app ums and it is working.
It is resolving to so and so IP address.
Right.
And now we will run the command ping UMS app and ping dev UMS app.
So these are uh associated with the front end network.
These two things we are testing it now from web nginx okay.
So we will say ping UMS app ping UMS app.
And it is working.
It is resolving without any issues.
And after that we can say dev you can copy from here.
Right.
So this is the one dev UMS app and let's run it.
And it is also working.
We are getting the responses okay.
And now this is the positive test.
But we can also do a negative test okay.
So the negative test is you can ping my spring app which is present, which is the alias for back end
for the same app.
My app UMS from the back end network, you should be able to access my spring app, but web nginx is
associated with front end network, so ideally it should fail.
We will try that okay.
We will say ping and it should fail.
Name or service not known.
So that is the thing.
So either with ping if you want you can also test Nslookup and how it is resolving.
Also Nslookup and my spring app and it will not be resolved, but from the front end network, two names,
whatever we have right UMS app and dev UMS app, those should be resolved.
So it is app UMS is the service name.
It resolves to one 7219 zero two and if I say Nslookup and UMS app, it should be resolved to the same
and in the same way.
If I say dev ums app also, it should be resolved to the same IP address.
So that's about it.
So this is the testing which we have done from web nginx.
Right.
In the same way, the next step here is to test from db MySQL from db MySQL The Nslookup R ping test
should be successful for my spring app and my API services, and should fail for UMS app and dev UMS
app because db MySQL is associated with back end network and here with back end aliases, whatever is
present, those should be accessible and with front end network, whatever the aliases are there, those
should fail.
Now let's go ahead and then test from DB MySQL service.
Verify connectivity to app UMS alias.
So when we are doing that.
So from app from DB MySQL uh only the back end aliases should be reachable and then front end aliases
should fail.
Why?
Because DB MySQL is associated with back end network only and it cannot resolve to front end aliases
whatever we have defined here.
So let's go back and then connect to our ums MySQL db.
So we'll go here and run the command docker PS and here docker exec hyphen I t and ums.
Mysqldb is the container name.
My my SQL db and slash bin slash s h and we'll go to bash and clear should not work here in this.
So if it is a ubuntu based image run these commands.
If it is a uh oracle based Docker image, run these commands.
So here if I say cat etc. OS release, you can see this is a oracle image.
Right.
So we are going to run use install these things using micro DNF, install ip utils and bind utils.
It will take a little bit of time to install them a minute or two.
So let's wait for them.
We can see it here.
Those packages were installed.
Now let's come back here.
And for let's try with ping ums.
We are in the MySQL DB server app.
UMS is accessible with the service name.
Now we will try with Pink Spring app, which is present in our back end networks in app rooms.
So let me try that ping.
And then this is the name my spring app.
And it is also pinging working as expected.
We will also test ping my API services right.
Even that also working as expected.
It is going to one 7218 zero three.
And if you want we can also run Nslookup, my API services or my spring app or app UMS.
And all these things should resolve to the same IP address which is from the back end network.
Now let's do a negative test.
Positive test is working.
So which means from uh db MySQL related container, we are able to nslookup our ping to these two services,
which is associated with back end aliases.
Now let us try the negative test which is we will try with U-m's app, which is in the front end network.
Right.
So we'll go here and I will say ping U-m's app and it should fail our Nslookup U-m's app and it should
fail.
Why?
Because these are related to front end aliases, which we are trying to test from the container which
is associated to the back end network.
So let me come out of this.
And we have successfully tested Docker compose aliases in both front end and back end network, uh,
containers associated with front end network from which we have tested, which is web, nginx and containers
associated with the back end network which is MySQL DB we have tested.
Now let us go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
So which is docker compose down hyphen v including the volume we are going to remove.
So this completes the demo.
About docker compose aliases I will see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Compose BUILD ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about build flag in Docker Compose.
What is the purpose of this hyphen?
Hyphen build flag.
It forces docker compose to rebuild images defined in your docker compose YAML before starting the containers,
so it will be helpful in the development phases when our application is in development phases.
So if we go back to our previous demos, any of the previous demos here, anything if you open write
example, the previous demo aliases here, if you go to Docker Compose and take any service, you have
taken the Docker image, which is either present in Docker Hub or from GitHub packages.
Right.
And then you are using them to run them using using Docker Compose as a stack.
Right now what we are going to do is here we are going to build the Docker image, right?
And we have the source code available, and we also have the Docker file available with us.
And using Docker compose with hyphen hyphen build we are going to build the Docker image in our local
desktop.
So let's review this uh compose file.
Now we will go back here to our Visual Studio Code and go to the section 34 Docker Compose build.
And in the build demo folder you can find docker-compose.yml file and also a Python app folder.
So in this file you can see services.
And you are giving the service name as something like web right.
Or you can give some my app or whatever we want.
We can give here okay.
And image we are giving is my Python app latest as the image which means name of the Docker image we
are going to create is we are going to create is my Python app and container name.
When the docker compose up is run right?
It is going to create a container with name my Python container.
Right.
And let's talk about ports.
The ports we are going to use is 5000 as the host port and 5000 as the container port.
And here comes the important part as part of this demo which is the build.
Right?
So when you use the build argument, right, which means you are trying to build a Docker image using
Docker compose, and here from which context it need to take the data from this location, the context
used for building the image.
So in the Python app folder.
So dot slash python app folder, you have the content.
From there it need to take the data.
And using which Docker file it need to take.
This is the docker file you are specified in Python app.
So in this Python app folder you have the docker file.
And in this docker file you have said that use the python slim docker image and Workdir.
You are making it as slash app in your container and from your local like in the Python app folder,
you have the requirements.txt which installs the flask package, right?
So that one you are trying to copy to your slash app directory.
You said requirements.txt should be copied to dot means to slash app directory in your container and
once copied, uh install that uh, flask package.
Okay, install that dependency, whatever is present in requirements.txt after that copy, whatever
is there in the local directory, which means uh, in this directory inside the Python app.
Right.
So whatever is there, uh, copy it to your current directory, which means slash app in your container.
Nothing.
But you are trying to copy app.py to your slash app directory in container.
After that, expose your application with the 5000 port and in addition to that run the command python
app.py.
So that is what we are going to do and what is present in app.py.
So this is a simple flask application which will return, which is a hello api v1.
Hello docker compose build demo.
That is all.
And it listens on port 5000.
That is all.
No, no big complex code here.
Okay, we are trying to learn docker compose.
Build context means like a build argument from docker compose file and hyphen hyphen build argument
when you are running the command.
Those things we are trying to learn here.
Right.
So now what we are going to do is we'll come back here and then when to use this hyphen hyphen build
flag right after making changes to the Docker file, or when application code or dependencies have been
updated to ensure containers run the latest version of your image.
So in that case we can use this, right?
So after making changes to the Docker file you can run with hyphen hyphen build flag.
So new Docker image is created.
And that Docker image will be run as a container.
And the other thing is when application code or dependencies have been updated.
So example like in your app dot pi, you have changed some code here.
Example from v1 to v2.
I have changed it right.
So which means it it need to rebuild the docker image and also it need to recreate the container.
So at that point of time also you can use hyphen.
Hyphen build and command syntax is docker compose up and then hyphen hyphen build.
And hyphen d is we are going to run it in detached mode.
It is common.
So we will use this way.
And what happens with this flag is it combines building and static containers in single step.
So it will build that uh Docker image.
And after that it will also run the container by taking the latest Docker image, what you have built
in your local desktop.
That is what it is going to do.
So let us go ahead and then practically implement this in our next lecture.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Compose BUILD demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 34 or section 34 where we are going to learn about Docker compose build flag.
Right.
So as part of introductory section we have already understood about what what build flag provides for
us.
But one more time.
If you want to reiterate, we can use this build flag for any code changes or Docker file changes or
environment updates.
And in addition to that, this build flag helps us very importantly in tackling the automatic versus
manual building things.
So what happens is when you run docker compose up, it will use the existing image present in your in
your desktop, or if it need to be downloaded from Docker Hub, it will download and then it will start
the container, but it won't check for the changes in your docker file, what you have newly updated,
or any code changes you have done in your code.
Respective repositories or in code respective folders.
And it is not going to check anything there.
so it is going to only use the existing image.
But when you use hyphen, hyphen build flag, what happens is it will rebuild the image regardless of
whether it was previously built or not.
So when it rebuilds the new Docker image using the Docker image only, it is going to create a container,
which means you always have the latest code available for you.
So that helps a lot when you use this hyphen.
Hyphen build flag with compose in combination.
Already we have reviewed this sample application as part of our introductory section.
We will go through on a high level in section 34 Docker Compose build folder you have a build demo,
and in build demo folder you have the docker compose uh YAML file and python app folder.
And here in Python app folder you have the app dot pi and also docker file and requirements dot txt.
And if you see in the docker compose in the build context, you have the Python app, which means in
the Python app folder you have the docker file, and this docker file will be executed to build the
docker image for us.
Now what we are going to do is first verify if we have anything available here in containers.
Nothing is running.
No other images are present locally, no volumes are there.
Now what we will do is we will go here and, uh, start the stack and verify what is the stack we are
going to start.
We are going to start the stack, this one.
Okay.
So it need to build this Docker image for us.
And it need to start the container with this name.
And when building the Docker image it will use this docker file present in Python app folder and create
a Docker image for us.
And when the container is created, you can access with port 5000.
And when you access it you are going to get on the browser v1.
Hello docker compose build demo right.
So now let's come back here.
Go ahead and then start the stack and then verify.
We will go to the build demo directory and run the command docker compose up hyphen, hyphen build and
hyphen d.
So let us go to our terminal here and we are in section 34 or demo 34.
And we will go to build demo directory.
And there you will find the Docker compose YAML and Python app folder.
So here we will run the command docker compose up hyphen hyphen build and build and hyphen d run it
in detached mode.
So first it is starting to build the docker image for us.
And once the Docker image is built right then it will go ahead and then also start the container.
So it also started the container.
So if I say Docker images you can find here my Python app latest just now created seven seconds ago.
And if you go back here in your Docker compose my python app latest is there and docker PS it will show
the container name.
So my Python container, which was created using my Python app latest.
Okay, so my Python container also got created.
And in addition to that, if you see the build process here.
So from it is using the Python latest Docker image write Python slim image.
And then it has set the workdir.
It copied the requirements.txt, it has run a pip, install requirements.txt, it copied the remaining
files and all those things it has run here.
Now what we can do is we can go here and we can access in localhost and 5000 if we access 5000 and you
can see v1.
Hello docker compose build demo.
We are seeing it here so successfully we have built the docker image using docker compose up hyphen
hyphen build and verified those things.
Now we will go and then change the code to v2 version.
So now let us come back here and then we will go to app dot Pi and change the code.
Now the change I will change it to v2 version.
My code has been changed.
Now what I need to do right.
What I need to do is I need to run the command docker compose up hyphen hyphen hyphen d one more time.
So let's see what happens when I run it.
So before that, if I run docker images here it is around about a minute ago it was built.
Okay now I will say docker compose up hyphen de hyphen hyphen hyphen.
First I will say hyphen build and hyphen d.
And it is trying to build the docker image now and it is also recreating the container for us.
So let us see what happens with this okay.
So let us wait for it.
And once the container is recreated, if I say Docker images, right.
So just a 15 seconds before one more Docker image is built now.
And if I say Docker PS, even the container started just 22 seconds before.
Now if I try to refresh this page right, it should have v two version of our application.
So whenever I made the code changes and whenever I have run the docker compose up and then build and
then hyphen D, right.
Hyphen hyphen build and hyphen hyphen d.
New code changes were reflected and in the Docker image also those code changes are present.
So new Docker image is created and also new container is created.
So that is the key thing here.
If we want we will try one more time right.
So we will change the version to v3 and run one more time.
Docker compose up hyphen hyphen build and hyphen d right.
It is trying to build the docker image for us and then also recreating the container.
So let's wait for it to recreate.
And once it is a container is recreated, we can say docker images and new docker image is built just
14 seconds ago.
And if you see the previous Docker image, its image ID is this 1345B, something like that.
And here you can see different image ID and if I say docker PS, a new container is created and its
id is ending with fb.
And then previous container you can see right this is Find a new container is also created.
27 seconds ago.
And if I try to refresh also you see V3 version of our application is accessible.
So now we have successfully tested the importance of using hyphen hyphen build and also in the docker
compose build context.
Right.
Build adding build here and providing the docker file.
Using compose, we can build the docker image and also start the container both two things simultaneously.
So that is the advantage of it.
Now let us go ahead and then clean up whatever we have done.
So I will say docker compose down and I will change this app dot pi to v1 for the students demo when
it is ready, right when they are doing again, it will start from v1 and once docker compose down is
done, I will also remove docker rmi and dollar docker images hyphen q.
So this should also remove the docker images.
Whatever we have created as part of this demo.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker compose watch flag with SYNC and RESTART ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker compose, watch flag and also Sync and Sync plus restart
options.
So let's understand what what are these features and how they are going to help us watch flag in docker
compose.
Right when we use the watch flag it enhances the development workflow, right?
So what happens here is you have something called when you are defining your Docker compose file, you
have a develop argument.
Under that you have something called watch.
And there you can define a few things like uh sync is one action and the other is sync plus restart.
In the next demo we will also see rebuild action.
But here we will learn about two things.
One is action sync and action sync plus restart in develop watch right in underscore develop in in develop.
Under that you will define watch.
And there you are going to define these things.
So how practically we can use it.
We are going to discuss it here.
So this sync option right.
Sync action helps us for real time code synchronization.
So it automatically syncs the changes to your sync, changes to your code or static files into running
containers without rebuilding images.
So if you just change the code in your local desktop automatically, it will, uh, it will be applied
in your container.
So there is no rebuilding of images or anything is required when you use this develop watch feature
with action as sync.
In the same way it enables instant feedback and faster iteration during development so you can keep
change, making changes to your code locally and then start verifying it directly via container right
in the and then see what it is happening.
So it is a faster iteration during development.
So example nginx content.
So you are making some changes here and automatically via browser.
You can access using your container endpoint and then verify.
And the.
Another important feature it has is automatic container restart, which is sync plus restart option.
So containers can automatically restart when configuration file changes happen, right.
Example if you take a ingenix right.
So in nginx you have a config file.
And in that config file you have made some changes.
So you can see it here in your local it is web Nginx.conf means like in your local desktop and you make
some changes there.
The target is it is your etcd nginx nginx.conf in your container.
So if you make any changes to your local nginx.conf it will do a sync plus restart means that changes
will be applied to your container and then your container will be restarted, right?
So that's what it is going to happen.
If you see here in your local HTML directory in web HTML directory, if you make any changes.
Right.
So those changes automatically will be synced to your container.
USR share nginx HTML folder.
So now when we talk about the nginx.conf ensures that updates requiring a restart are applied immediately.
Without manual intervention, you don't need to go and then manually restart your container.
Those things will be taken care of automatically when you use the action sync plus restart in develop
watch uh section.
So that's what it is going to happen.
So you can use a simplified command here which is docker compose up and then hyphen hyphen watch to
enable the develop watch feature.
And combines starting containers with active monitoring for changes.
So that's what it is going to happen.
So this completes the intro about develop watch feature in Docker Compose.
In our next lecture we will go ahead and then practically implement it.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Compose DEVELOP WATCH SYNC RESTART Feature ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to implement Docker Compose develop watch feature with Sink plus Restart options.
So let's go down here and we are going to do one change which is sink changes to your code in your real
time without rebuilding images.
So this is one thing we are going to test.
So any changes happen to your code.
Those things will be automatically synced in your container.
And the second is automatic restart containers when configuration file changes.
So these two things we are going to do with hyphen hyphen watch flag.
So now let's go ahead and then review all the files here.
So we'll go back to our Visual Studio Code here and go to demo 35 develop watch restart demo.
So inside that you have a folder called Sink and Restart demo.
And in that you have the Docker-compose.yaml file.
So here you say that uh, container name is my web server one and in build context where your Docker
file is present is in web folder in this web folder, and you have the Docker file.
So let's review those things before coming and reviewing this develop watch feature.
So you have the Docker file where it is using the nginx latest and it is copying the current nginx.conf
to etc. nginx nginx.conf.
And it is also copying the current HTML folder to your usr share nginx.
HTML.
And it is also going to expose on port 8080.
And then it is going to run the command nginx command.
It is going to run to start the nginx process.
Okay.
Now let us see the HTML files.
This is a simple index.html wherein you are saying sink, comma, sink plus restart demo in develop
and watch feature of docker compose.
You are doing it and this is a custom 404 page page not found.
Welcome to Stack Simplify custom 404 page.
We are going to use here.
Okay.
Now let's come back to Nginx.conf here.
Right.
In Nginx.conf.
Right.
So we are saying that, uh, it is going to listen on 8080 and the route from which it is going to access
your application is in usr share nginx.
HTML.
So whenever you access index.html index.html will be accessed, which is nothing but this one which
we are going to copy.
Right.
And in addition to that, we are also going to copy a custom 404 HTML.
But that is not not enabled initially.
Right.
So now if you make any changes here, right.
Let's come back to Docker Compose and review it in combination with this static content.
So in Docker compose you set that dot web slash HTML.
So here nothing.
But in web in HTML folder you have two files and those will be sync'd to usr share nginx dot HTML.
So if you go to this index dot HTML and change something like here version, right.
If you change this version automatically, that version will be synced in your container and you can
access it via browser.
So that's the first part we are going to test.
And the second part is we are saying sync plus restart, which means any changes happens to inside web.
You have something called Nginx.conf.
Inside web folder you have Nginx.conf any changes you do.
The changes we are going to do here is we are going to enable these lines error page.
We are going to use a custom 404 dot HTML, and its location is in route context, where you are going
to copy custom 404 dot HTML and it is going to serve from usr share nginx HTML file.
And we are going to say it as internal internal means.
When you access the browser, it will automatically display in a browser in that respective, which
will be accessed by nginx and then displayed on that respective 404 page internally.
Right.
So let's see when we practically implement it, we will understand it in detail.
But these lines we are going to uncomment when we are testing the docker compose, uh, this sink plus
restart feature, which is nothing but these lines.
And in the same way when we will go to index dot HTML and make changes here v1, v2, v3 and then verify
the uh thing, whether it is automatically getting synced or not using this.
Now let us go back here and then start doing the stuff.
So we'll come back here and then come down and start the stack and then verify.
So we'll go to sync and restart demo.
We will run the command docker compose up with hyphen hyphen watch right with watch option enabled.
So we'll go back here and come out of build demo.
Come out of it and we'll go to demo 35 Docker compose develop watch restart demo.
And here you have the sync and restart demo folder will go inside that and inside that you will find
the Docker-compose.yaml and web folder.
Okay.
Now we will say docker compose up and then hyphen hyphen watch.
We need to provide and let it run.
Once it is run we will see the next steps here.
So we have said hyphen hyphen watch.
So it is building a base Docker image for us.
And then it is running now.
So it is saying network sync and restart demo default created and container.
My web server also created and it is saying watch is enabled attaching to my web server.
And these are the things it is currently.
My web server one is currently running.
So if I say control in another tab, if I say Docker images you can see sync and restart demo.
Web related Docker image is created 23 seconds before and now you can see it is in the watch mode.
This terminal is freezed here means like we cannot run any commands on this terminal.
It is in the watch mode.
So only we opened a new terminal and run other commands here.
Now let us come back here and then which port it is running.
So we'll cross check that in.
Compose.
It is running 8080 port.
So we'll go here.
And with localhost 8080 will try to access our application.
And this is our application right.
It is a welcome to stack simplify docker compose develop and watch feature.
Here we are doing sync comma sync plus restart demo application version v1.
So that is what is currently present.
And we have accessed the application.
And here those logs are coming in okay.
So if I try to refresh again those logs came in here in my my web server in the watch flag.
When we are running it right now, we will go here and in the index dot HTML.
If I change this to v2 and then see what happens okay.
And it is saying syncing service web.
After one changes were detected, it said, okay, now if I come here and then refresh the page, you
can see V2 is there.
So container didn't get restart.
So if you go to here Docker and then PS and you see this container is running about a minute ago, it
is continuously running.
Only the changes.
Whatever you are making locally is getting synced.
So you can see here.
Now let's come back and then change it to V3 also and then see what happens.
I didn't save it yet.
We'll go here and we'll go here and I will just save now okay.
Save it.
And now you see what happens here.
Syncing service web after one changes were detected.
And now if I come here and then refresh you can see V3 is displayed here.
Now if you go here in another terminal and Docker PS you can see still from two minutes container is
running.
It didn't get restart okay.
So that's the thing.
So that's what we have successfully tested our feature here which is in Docker compose this feature
we have successfully tested.
Now we will test this feature sink plus a restart right.
Or we will learn this feature how to test it okay.
Now this is a custom 404 page enable below five lines to test sink plus restart option in Docker compose.
So before that what we will do is we will take this paste it here and I will say slash ABC.
And I got a 404 page which is a default nginx 404 page.
This one okay.
And if I go back here that is a default nginx 404 page.
We have it.
Has it got displayed.
This is the default nginx.
It's equivalent log.
Also we are seeing here and this is the one.
But we want a custom 404 page.
So what is the custom 404 page.
This is the custom 404 page which we have designed and we have already copied as per the docker file,
that custom 404 page also copied to our container.
It should be in our container.
So what we need to do is in the nginx.
We need to enable that custom 404 page, which means you are making a configuration change.
When you make a configuration change you have defined in Docker-compose.yml sync plus restart.
So when you make any changes to this nginx.conf file automatically it need to sync and then also restart
it.
So that is what it is going to do.
So let's do that.
Now I'll uncomment uncomment uncomment and then uncomment.
And now if I still didn't save I will save it now okay.
And then if I see sync service web after one changes were detected and container my web server started.
So it has restarted the container.
So if I go here and run the command docker PS right.
Uh, it is saying that 12 seconds before it got restarted, see, it restarted the container just 12
seconds before.
Now, if we go here and access this slash ABC instead of this default nginx 404 page, our custom nginx
404 page should be displayed.
You can see it here.
Welcome to Stack Simplify custom 404 page not found.
So this is a custom page.
It is displayed now in the same way.
If you want to again comment it and then see what happens, I will comment it, comment it and comment
it.
Save and you can see it here in what is happening.
See syncing service web and container is getting restarted.
So let it restart and once it is restarted it is restarted.
Right now we will go here and say Docker PS and it's just five seconds before container got restarted.
And if I refresh again this slash ABC some page write some page which doesn't exist automatically default
nginx HTTP 404 should be displayed.
So that's about it.
So we have successfully tested sync option and also sync plus restart option.
Now we'll go ahead and then clean up what we have implemented as part of this demo.
So I will say docker compose down.
And also once it is down we will also remove the docker image whatever we have created as part of this
demo.
So let's wait for the container to get stopped.
And after that docker rmi dollar docker images hyphen queue.
All the docker images will be cleaned up.
If I say docker images, nothing should be present.
So this completes the demo about sync plus sync plus restart.
So both the things we have learned as part of this demo.
In our next demo we will focus on learning about rebuild option.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Implement Docker Compose DEVELOP WATCH SYNC REBUILD Feature ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about rebuild action.
So earlier you have learned about Sync and Sync plus restart actions in our previous demo.
In the same develop watch of Docker Compose we are going to learn about rebuild here.
So automatically rebuild Docker images when changes happen to specific monitored configuration files.
So earlier we have used here sync plus restart.
Instead of that we want to do a rebuild.
So you can do that using rebuild option.
Right.
So when change happens to your nginx.conf if you want to rebuild a new Docker image.
So you can do that.
So let's see how we are going to do that now.
So we'll go back to our demo 36 docker compose develop watch rebuild.
All the steps are going to be as is all the content is going to be as is.
Only thing is, what we are going to do is we are going to uncomment those lines and then automatically
it will build a new Docker image for us.
Okay.
You should see a new Docker image built making changes to Nginx.conf.
The rebuild action defined in docker compose file.
Rebuild the docker image was updated or not.
You are going to verify right?
So now let's go back here to our, uh Visual Studio Code and we'll go to 36 Docker compose develop watch
rebuild.
Here the folder is sync and rebuild demo.
And in Docker compose file all these things are same.
The name you have given is my web server two.
Context is dot web, where the docker file is present, and when you make any static file changes,
it is going to sync.
And when he config file changes, if you make it is going to just rebuild the docker image.
So there is no specific context or some real world demo here.
But I'm trying to explain what happens when you use the action rebuild here with a simple demo.
And these things are same as is in the Enginex dot conf.
You have this part commented, and this is the standard docker file which we have seen in our previous
demo, and this is custom 404 and this is the index dot HTML.
Now let us go back here in the terminal and go to demo 36 docker compose develop watch rebuild.
And here you can see Sync and rebuild demo.
And we will say docker compose up hyphen.
Hyphen watch is the thing which we need to run right.
And it should build a Docker image for us initial docker image.
So let us see that now okay.
My web server two is running currently right.
And if you go to another terminal and say Docker images you can see sync and rebuild demo web latest
one Docker image is running with 19 C right at the end.
Now what happens is now we will go here right.
So if you want you can access your application and all those things.
So localhost 8080 your application is accessible.
If I refresh You can see here all the logs are printed here in the watch terminal.
Now we will go here and go to Nginx.conf.
And then I need to uncomment these lines.
Right.
And I didn't save it yet.
Okay.
So if I say localhost 8080 and then if I say slash ABC default nginx page is displayed.
Now let's come back and then save this file yet not save it.
Now I am going to save it.
Before saving it I am going to open the terminal here.
Let me save it.
And it is saying rebuilding service web.
After changes were detected, service web successfully built.
It is saying so if I say Docker images right nine seconds before a new Docker image is built.
So this is 19 C and this is BE1E.
It is a different Docker image.
It is built now.
And now if I say docker PS and nine seconds before a new docker container also restarted.
Okay.
So now if I try to refresh here.
Right.
Custom page is displayed.
Now let's see.
Okay.
Right now we will go back here and then comment it okay.
And then what happens.
Okay.
Comment comment comment.
And then come back here and come back here.
Enter and save and rebuilding service web after changes were detected service web successfully built.
It is saying okay now if I say Docker images it is saying just a new Docker image is built and rebuild
the demo.
Docker images means like old version.
It has took but image id changed.
Why?
Because it's the same layers, right?
So that's the reason created is two minutes ago.
It is saying but it's a new Docker image.
First one is this one.
And now this is the new one okay.
Now what we need to do is if I say docker PS.
Also docker PS and container just restarted 22 seconds before.
And if I try to refresh it nginx default page should be Displayed, right?
So instead of Sync plus restart, you can use a rebuild option which will also rebuild the Docker image
and also restart the container.
So that's the key important thing here.
So it can rebuild the Docker image and also restart the container.
So this is what we have learned as part of this demo which is a rebuild option with the Develop Watch
feature.
So now let me stop this right.
And after that we will say docker compose down.
And also we will remove the Docker images whatever we have created.
As part of this demo I will say docker compose down.
And after that docker uh rmi dollar docker images hyphen q.
This completes the demo about develop watch feature with sync sync plus restart and also rebuild actions.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker BuildKit ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker build kit in detail.
So let's understand the Docker build architecture on a high level.
So here in Docker build architecture we are going to have client and server.
Client is nothing but our command which we are going to run.
So we are going to run docker build exe as the command.
And that is the command we will use to create the Docker images.
And that command will be sent to the build kit server, the back end builder that actually executes
the build processes.
And these build kit servers will have local builders and also remote builders.
So local builders are nothing but which are present on our local desktop.
And remote builders are which are present on the Docker build cloud.
Now if you see here, this build kit is nothing, but it is an advanced build engine that replaces the
legacy Docker builder and it is available from Docker Engine version 2323 version as the default builder,
and it provides enhanced performance like build speed, efficiency and also lot of new features.
It also allows us to run multiple builds at a time with optimized caching.
So which means it provides means like using this build kit, you can create or run parallel builds,
and also it has a efficient cache management.
And in addition to that it has reduced build times, which leads to increased productivity.
And also it have the effective secret management and enhanced security.
And it allows us to connect the remote builders in our local desktop so that our build will run on the
remote builders, which are present on the Docker build cloud.
And we can also create multi-platform Docker images.
So this build kit supports multi-platform For building multi-platform Docker images.
So let us see what exactly that means.
So if you go to Hub.docker.com and if you type any of the Docker image.
So let's say like nginx right.
And if you go to the nginx docker image and if you go to the tags here and take any of the tag right.
So any of the tag, if you take it in this tag, you see this is a single tag, but you have multiple
Docker images created as part of OS and architecture operating system architecture.
So one Docker image for Linux 386.
So this is built using means like this is built using Linux 386.
And it supports only on Linux 386 in the same way this is built for Linux Amd64.
This is this one is built for Linux Armv5 this for Armv7.
And this is for ARM 64 V8.
So like this we can build a Docker image which supports multiple operating system architectures.
So that is possible using this build kit, and it generates multi-platform supported Docker images at
a time, so you can run a single Docker build command and provide multiple platforms there.
And it creates a Docker image with multiple platforms in it with a single command itself.
So you don't need to run multiple times a single command.
Support for this environment.
With a single environment you can create all these, uh, supported Docker, all the operating system
architectures, whatever you want to create the Docker images.
Or you can create with a single command.
And in the next demo we are going to see that in detail right now.
Another important thing which we need to know is builders.
Okay.
So if we go to our Docker desktop and in Docker desktop, if you go to the settings and if you go to
the builders, we will find the builders here.
One is default builder which is a local builder, and the other is desktop Linux which is also a local
builder.
So if you want to use default builder, you can just say use and it will switch and you can see it here.
Let me say use and uh click on.
Yes.
It will take a little bit of time to switch, but you can close here.
And then again try to click on settings and then again builders.
And then it will refresh.
See now it has changed it to default one.
And if you want to change back to desktop Linux again you can click on use and click on yes.
And let's wait for it.
And automatically it changes.
So like this you can change the builders.
Now we are talking about these are the local builders desktop Linux and default.
But in addition to that we also have something called uh build cloud where you can create builders in
the build cloud and then connect them here in your Docker desktop.
So what happens is when you run the Docker build command and when you make it as the default builder
to run.
So in the cloud you can run the build process even though you execute your command in your local terminal
here as docker build and so and so command.
But in the entire build will run on the build cloud, and we have a dedicated demo for it here, which
is demo 39, Docker Build Cloud.
And if you have the Docker Build Cloud subscription, we can run those things in the remote build cloud.
So if you see it here uh desktop Linux and default are local builders.
And this is the builder from Docker Build Cloud.
You can call it as a remote builder also.
So we can run builds locally.
Or we can also run builds on the build cloud in a remote way by running the commands from our local
desktop.
Now why do we need to use remote builders?
So if we go back here, right.
And then click on Docker and then you will say build cloud.
Okay.
So you can say Docker and build cloud.
And if we open this here right when we use the Docker build cloud the build process will be 39 x faster
okay.
So if you see it here right.
So this is the local build which is running.
And the same build they are running on the Docker build cloud and let us see what happens.
What will be the performance here.
So this Docker build cloud will complete close to in 15 seconds.
And then this uh Docker build which is run on local will take close to 30s.
So you can see it here which is run on build cloud completed within 15 seconds.
And the same steps here, it might take close to 30s.
So that is the key difference means like the performance on build cloud is going to be super high right.
So that is the thing we need to remember.
We will discuss and practically implement in demo 39 about build cloud.
But here we are going to focus mainly on local builders.
And what we are going to do in this demo is we are going to create one local builder directly, and
use that builder to create multi-platform Docker images in next demo.
In this demo, we will create a new builder and try to see how we can make it as the default builder.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker BuildKit Demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 37 or section 37, where we are going to implement practically about creating a local
builder.
And in addition to that we are also going to run different local builder commands.
So let's start with uh running the command docker build x version.
So this is the CLI what we have discussed.
So if you go back here build X is the client.
So Docker build x and then version.
So we'll go to the terminal here and I'll say docker build x and version right.
And it will provide the build X version for us as on today whatever is there.
And if you want to list the builders, whatever available are currently present in our local Docker
desktop, which are created as part of Docker desktop installation.
So you can say Docker build x ls and it says we have the default builder and we have the desktop Linux
builder.
So if you go here, the same thing we have seen here, when we have seen the Docker desktop default
builder and desktop Linux Builder.
So those two are listed here.
And those things can the supported platforms for those things.
You can see Linux amd64, Linux amd64 v2 and amd64 v3 arm64.
So like this.
There are multiple platforms.
So these builders can generate multiple platforms.
For us means like multi-platform images can be generated using these builders.
So now let's come back and verify the builder instances using Docker desktop.
So which we have already seen we went to the settings section and builders.
And these things we can see it here on the Docker desktop.
Now run the Docker build command which is due and then prune.
So now if we go here and if I say docker build exe and du right.
And you can see You have currently 369 MB.
It is currently using this build exe and you can remove the build cache using Docker build x prune command.
So what I will say is docker build x and then prune.
So before running the prune when you have run the do command, you have 360 9.7 MB.
Currently it is cached there.
Okay.
Now if I say uh this will remove all dangling build cache.
Are you sure you want to continue?
Yes, I want to continue.
I want to clean it up.
And now if I say docker build x and then D, you again verify the size and you see zero bytes.
So how you can clear the cache for build x command is like docker build x prune.
Using that command.
You can do that and also learn about docker build x inspect command.
Right.
So let's inspect desktop Linux builder and also default builder.
So we'll run the command docker build X inspect.
Spect and then we will say hyphen, hyphen builder.
And we have the builders default builder we have and also desktop hyphen Linux builder we have.
So in the default builder you can see all the information about that builder is provided.
So this is the default builder which is using the driver and nodes.
It is using the default node which is our local desktop.
And these are the platforms it supported which means it can create a multi-platform images.
These are the supported platforms for which it can generate it.
And these are the labels currently present for it.
And here are the additional information about that respective builder.
In the same way you can also run desktop hyphen.
Linux is another builder.
So we have two builders right.
So we have inspected this and we can inspect this builder.
And you can see the information about that builder in detail.
Here it is using the build kit version.
So and so.
And these platforms are supported.
And all these are the information about that in the labels section and additional information about
that builder.
Now let's come back here and then move to the next step which is how to switch the builders.
So using this command we have switched it like by clicking on use on the Docker desktop but using command
command line.
Also we can do that.
Okay.
So when you run the command docker build docker build x ls right.
So it is it displayed here default and desktop Linux.
So when you see the star here star means this is the current one which is the default builder currently
configured.
So if you run any builds now it will run against this builder only right.
So that's what you have seen in the desktop.
Also desktop Linux is the default builder used when you start a build.
So that is what star means.
This is the default builder.
Now what we will do is we will switch the default builder to default one uh means like whatever its
name is.
Default.
So this is the one we will switch it using command line.
So you can say Docker context use default.
Then it will switch to this builder as the default builder.
Let's come back here.
Docker context use.
And then this is the builder name default.
And now if I say docker build x, build x ls and star should be present for default one.
See now the star is present and even if you go to Docker desktop here, default one became the default
builder here in the same way.
Now what we will do is we will try to again switch the context back.
Use desktop hyphen, Linux and uh, docker context use not build x, use sorry docker context use desktop
Linux.
And if I say docker build x and ls, you can see desktop Linux will have the star and you can also verify
the same thing.
It became the default builder.
So that's about switching the context.
Now finally creating and initializing a new builder.
Currently you have two builders here which are default builders.
You can create a new one if you want.
Okay.
So docker build x create and name of your builder.
And you can use hyphen hyphen use so that you can make that as the default builder.
When you say hyphen hyphen use automatically switch to the newly created builder, which means it becomes
the default builder for us.
So let me run this command.
And if you want to use hyphen hyphen bootstrap that builder will be started.
So you can also run this command.
You can run this command.
And after that using inspect command you can run bootstrap so that it will be started or a single command
using this single command.
Also you can start.
You don't need to run this also.
So anything is fine.
So I'll try this first command here and then it a new builder will be created.
So if we go here, right, if you go to the desktop, right.
Mybuilder is created.
But it didn't get started.
Okay.
So how to get it started.
So we'll go here and then we'll say docker build X inspect hyphen hyphen bootstrap.
And now it is getting started.
Okay.
So now it will download the build kit and then it will start.
It means like that respective Docker container.
Okay.
Now let's come back to the Docker desktop here.
And we'll click on this.
And you can see my builder is in the running state earlier.
It is in the past state.
Now it is in the running state.
So you have default builder desktop Linux builder which are local builders.
And in addition to that my builder one, just now you have created which is a Docker container and it
is in the running status.
Now let's come back here.
And if you run the command docker build x ls okay.
So if you say docker build x ls and you can see here my builder is my builder one is created and which
has the star, which means this is the default builder.
If you run any build now, this will be executed.
So that is the thing and you can see it here.
List the Docker containers.
Okay so let's come back here docker PS and see this is the build my builder one zero.
So this is the my builder one zero.
So it has created a Docker container for it.
And then running.
So any build you run using Docker build x.
Now because this is the default builder it will run against this container right.
So verify the build X container is running right.
And we have also verified on the Docker desktop also whether it is in the running state or not.
So let's this completes the creation of a new builder and also running about multiple build X commands.
In our next demo, we will go ahead and then create a multi-platform Docker image and then verify it.
So I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to building Multi-platform Docker Images ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to build multi-platform Docker images.
So here multi-platform Docker images are nothing, but we build once run anywhere approach for multiple
architectures.
So it simplifies the deployment processes across diverse environments.
So here Buildkit and build provides the tools necessary to build and manage these images efficiently.
So we don't need to build for every environment separately.
Right.
For every architecture separately using Buildkit and build.
Exe.
By running a single command, we can generate Docker images for multiple platforms or architectures.
So there are sample platforms have listed here arm64, amd64, something like that.
But if you see the picture here you have a Docker file.
And using the Buildkit multi-platform support option, so you will be able to create a Docker image
with multiple architectures with a single command.
Now let's see that okay.
So if you go to any builder and verify what all supported platforms are there, it will show there.
So if you go back to our, uh, Docker desktop.
And if you try to open this default one.
So these are the platforms it supports.
Okay.
In the same way desktop Linux these are the platforms it supports.
And you can see now that my builder one whatever we have created which is a container running on this
Docker local desktop right.
Docker desktop.
So these are the platforms supported as part of this.
My builder one.
So like this we um we can see what all things they support in detail.
Now let's uh go come back here.
And in our next lecture we'll go ahead and then practically create one multi-platform Docker image and
then verify.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Multi-platform Docker images demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 38 or section 38 where we are going to build multi-platform Docker images.
So we will build the Docker image using a simple Docker file which is a simple nginx docker file.
So let's come back here and we will review the docker file now.
So we will go to Visual Studio Code and in section 38 right.
So we are in multi-platform demo.
There you find the Docker file.
So from nginx as the base Docker image.
And we are going to create a Docker image wherein we are going to say copy index.html to so and so with
standard OCI labels in index.html you can see we are saying that docker build buildkit and build.
Exe create multi-platform.
Docker images is the demo name.
That's all.
And then now let's come back here.
And then for the base nginx docker image whatever we are creating a multi-platform supported Docker
uh images.
So we need to verify the supported architecture.
So for that purpose, we can go here to our hub.docker.com and we will run the command nginx and search
for the nginx docker image.
And if we go down here so these are the supported Docker or supported architectures.
We can generate the Docker image.
And we are going to generate for two platforms.
One is amd64 and then another is arm64.
These two we are going to generate as part of this demo.
So those are in the supported architectures only because whatever is supported in the base uh base Docker
image only that we need to use.
Okay.
So now let's come back here and build and load multi-platform Docker images locally.
So this is one thing and another one is build and push multi-platform Docker images to Docker Hub.
So this thing is supported.
This thing is recommended out of 100% 100%.
And this is not recommended okay.
So push to Docker Hub and from there download as part of your platform and then use it.
But we have the hyphen, hyphen load flag.
We are trying to use it.
So when you use the hyphen hyphen load flag, what happens is it will build the multi-platform Docker
images and it will load the Docker image supported as part of that platform on your local desktop.
That's all.
Okay.
So let's see what exactly that means.
So we'll run the command docker build x ls right.
And it will show us the builders here.
And my builder one is the default builder currently configured for us.
And we are going to use that for generating the multi-platform Docker images with hyphen hyphen load
option.
So the command here is docker build x build is the command name.
And you provide the platforms whatever you want to generate the Docker image example Linux amd64 and
Linux Arm64 and provide your Docker image name here with hyphen t and hyphen hyphen load and then dot,
wherein you are saying currently on the where your Docker file is present inside this.
Okay.
And we already changed it to this directory.
We are saying dot from the current directory.
You take the docker file and load the docker image after it is built in our local desktop itself.
So that's the multi-platform Docker image with hyphen hyphen load.
So we'll run that command and it should uh, run it.
So what happened.
Docker build X build.
And.
We didn't go to that directory.
So that's the thing.
So we'll go to 38 Docker multi-platform images.
And we'll go to multi-platform demo.
And here when we run the command it is running the build now.
And it has uh it is also creating the uh tarball for us.
And now the when you run the command Docker images you can see the Docker image demo one multi-platform
local is created for us.
Now what we will do is, uh, this is just for learning purpose.
We have used hyphen, hyphen load to do that.
But ideally the recommended way is to use, build and push multi-platform Docker images to Docker Hub.
In that case, what we are going to do is we are going to use hyphen.
Hyphen push flag.
The entire command is same.
So docker build x build and provide your platforms for which you want to generate the Docker image and
hyphen t.
And here you provide your Docker id.
So this is my docker ID stack.
Simplify slash.
And my image name is demo two.
Multi-platform local local means I am running the local builder here and then just.
I have given that for naming convention.
My local builder I am trying to use here and hyphen hyphen push.
It will push the docker image to the uh, Docker Hub.
So I'll try to log in to my Docker hub here.
Right.
And uh, let me log in.
And once I log in right.
So here it should be displayed after completion.
Okay.
So now we will try to copy this command.
In your case change your Docker ID.
Edit your command accordingly.
Now let's come back here.
Before that you need to log in to your Docker ID.
So you will say docker login.
And it is saying that you need to log in.
Just go and then copy this link and go to browser and click on it and enter your one time code.
And my one time code is this one.
So let me copy this and provide this and click on continue and click on confirm.
And I have successfully authenticated to my Docker Hub in my terminal waiting for the authentication
in the browser.
So let's wait for it.
Login is succeeded.
Now what I will do is I will run the command now after docker login and we went to this multi-platform
demo location and here we will run this command.
So let me copy this complete command and run it.
And you can see it is currently running the uh, Docker image.
And it has generated the Docker image.
And it is trying to push that to our, uh, stack.
Simplify is my, uh, Docker Hub account.
And for there it is trying to push it.
So let's wait for it to push.
It will take a little bit of time.
We can see it here.
Docker image.
Successfully push it to our Docker Hub so we can go to our Docker Hub and then refresh.
So let's go here and go to repositories and try to refresh.
And then we can see it here.
Stack simplify slash demo to multi-platform local is pushed successfully to Docker Hub.
So whatever we have said here hyphen hyphen push it has pushed it to Docker Hub.
And in addition to that, it will not be present in the local Docker images.
Also, it is only push it to Docker Hub.
So if I say Docker images, nothing should be present.
I already deleted whatever we have created, which is uh, demo one.
So this one, whatever we have created here, demo one, multi platform I have cleaned up and now you
can see only the builder related Docker image.
Other than that nothing.
So this demo two multi-platform Docker image directly pushed it to the Docker Hub.
And you can see it here.
And important thing to verify is in the tags section for v1.
You can see two digests here one for Linux amd64 and the other is for Linux arm64.
So you have created a Docker image for two platforms using single command.
What is that command.
So this is the one docker build x build and provided two platforms here.
So you can see that two platform related Docker images generated.
Now let's come back and then pull the Docker image and then run it locally and then verify.
So you can pull the Docker image using docker pull command and then verify it.
This is the Docker image name doc.
You can copy directly here and then come back to the terminal here clear and run the command docker
pull stack slash demo to multi-platform hyphen local v one.
Now we are trying to download the docker image.
So if I say docker images it should be present here.
So this is the Docker image for us.
We want to inspect the Docker image.
After pulling it you can run the command docker image inspect and then provide your Docker image name.
So we can run this here and this.
The platform I am running is amd64.
So it has downloaded the amd64 related docker image.
Now if we want we can run the Docker container from this image and then verify our sample application
also using docker run command.
So docker run hyphen hyphen name my platform demo and is the container name and hyphen p port 8080 should
be my localhost port or my local desktop port, which I am mapping with the container port 80 and then
hyphen d.
I am going to run it in the detached mode, and this is the docker image which we are using it.
Okay, so let me run this command.
And now if I say docker PS my container should be in the running state.
So this is the container it is running.
We can see the container name as my platform, my multi-platform demo, and it is using the Docker image
demo two multi-platform local v1.
Now let us go here and access our application with localhost 8080.
Right.
And we can see it here.
Uh the demo we are doing is create multi-platform Docker Images, which is successfully accessible also.
And if you want, we can go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created as part of this demo.
So I will say docker stop or rm hyphen f and then provide the container name which is this one.
And that should remove the Docker container.
And we can also remove the Docker image whatever we have downloaded docker rmi.
And this is the Docker image.
So I'll give its image id here.
Copy and docker image also cleaned up.
And now we have something called.
We also need to stop and remove the build builder.
So we'll run the command docker build x ls.
And this is the builder.
Currently my builder one is running.
So we are going to stop that builder okay docker build x stop my builder one.
And that should be stopped first okay.
So if you go back to our Docker desktop and then go back to the builder section, currently it is in
the running state builder inoperable.
We have stopped that builder.
And then after that we are also going to remove that builder.
My builder one.
So let me build my builder one is removed now.
So if you go back to the Docker desktop here, desktop Linux became the default builder and my builder
one is removed from the uh, scope here.
Okay.
Now if we want to also we can run the command docker build x and LZ.
And you can see that only two builders are there default and desktop Linux.
So this completes the demo about uh generating or creating the multi-platform Docker images using Docker
build kit with docker build x CLI.
I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Build Cloud ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker Build Cloud.
So what is Docker Build Cloud.
It is a cloud based build service for Docker images which provides scalable remote infrastructure to
handle builds, especially for resource intensive or multi-platform projects, so primarily used for
resource intensive or multi-platform projects.
So its infrastructure is highly scalable.
When we compare it with our local desktop, local desktop, we have a limited infrastructure, but here
in the cloud it can be scaled to unlimited infrastructure.
Due to that, the amount of time it takes to complete a build is going to be very short means like we
can speed up our build process and it also allows for concurrent operations on large projects.
So there are multiple advantages to using Docker build cloud.
And it also supports the multi-platform building multi-platform Docker images using single process.
It is same as build kit whatever is available in local.
It is also the same available on the cloud.
Only thing is we see a high performance here.
And in addition to that, effective cash management and also we see improved security and secrets management.
Right.
So all the sensitive data is safely stored in the cloud, ensures only during the build process and
never included in the final image.
So that's about security and secret management and for build caching also it reuses cached layers from
previous builds stored in the cloud, reducing build times and resource usage, especially for frequently
updated applications.
Right.
So that's the key important thing.
These are the benefits about Docker build cloud.
Let's go ahead and then practically implement it.
And in our demo what we are going to do is we are going to create one Docker image using Docker Build
Cloud and the other Docker image using local builder and see the performance how much each one takes,
so that it will be easy for us to know that how build cloud is highly performant, then a local desktop
builders.
And another important thing here to note is build cloud is not free for a basic free plan user.
You cannot implement this demo, so this is a optional demo for you.

--- Step-02: Implement Docker Build Cloud Demo ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 39.
Docker build cloud.
And here we are going to create a cloud builder in Docker Build Cloud.
And also we are going to create a local builder in Docker Desktop.
We are going to build a Docker image using both builders and compare performance differences.
We will also learn to clear build caches using Docker build x prune command.
And we will learn to set up default builder for Docker builds using the command docker build x and use
builder name.
And if you want you can provide the flag hyphen.
Hyphen global.
And very important note about this build cloud demo is Docker Build cloud will only be available with
the new Docker Pro team and business plan.
So for basic users it is not available.
So this demo you need to watch it, but if you want to practically experience it, at least you should
have the Pro subscription for Docker.
So that's the important thing.
Now let's go and then create a cloud builder.
So let us go to the Docker build cloud and you can see app dot dot Docker.com build is the URL.
I have also provided the hyperlink here, and I am going to create a new cloud builder whose name is
my Cloud Builder one right.
Or something like that.
Okay, so I will say stack simplify and create a cloud builder.
And I'll try to put the name as my Cloud Builder two right and create it.
So let's wait for the Cloud builder to get created.
Now my cloud builder got created.
And uh, for the following, um, if you cloud driven shared builders designed to accelerate build times
for your teams, connect via Docker Desktop for this Cloud Builder two, you can click on this command,
connect to a Docker desktop and click on connect to connect to it.
So that is one thing.
Or you can run this command add the Cloud Builder endpoint in your local, uh, Docker desktop either
using this command.
Also Docker build X create.
You can also see the same commands here see docker build x create and hyphen.
Hyphen, driver and cloud driver is cloud and stack simplify slash my cloud builder two.
So any anything is fine.
You can run this command.
Either run this command or you can click on connect via Docker desktop.
Anything is fine.
So we'll try to run the command okay.
My builder name is my Cloud builder builder to Docker build X create and driver I am using is cloud
and this is my cloud builder.
Uh in stack Simplify it is my Cloud Builder two.
So it should be your Docker username.
Slash your builder name.
So I'll copy this and come to my local terminal here.
Clear.
And at the end I'm going to add to my Cloud Builder two.
Let's wait for it to complete the command.
Now you can see cloud.
It created a name Cloud Stack.
Simplify my Cloud Builder two right.
So it added successfully.
So we'll go to the Docker desktop here.
And let me close this and try to open it again in the settings and in the builders you can see Cloud
Stack simplify my Cloud Builder two.
It is in the running state.
Also you can open it here so you can see it is in running state.
And it supports the following platforms and Linux ARM 64.
It supports following platforms and now it is in the running state currently.
Now let's come back here right.
And you we have also verified on the Docker desktop whether it is available or not.
Now we will create a one local builder whose name is my local builder one.
Okay.
Why?
Because we are going to create Docker images from local builder and also the remote builder or the cloud
builder and verify the comparison.
Both the things.
Okay, I will try to copy this and run it okay.
And I will also run the command to start it.
Let's wait for it to start.
And after that when I say Docker build castles right.
So let's wait for it to download and start.
Now if I say docker build ls, I can see here that the cloudstack simplify McLeod builder two.
It is also running and my local builder one also running.
So if you go back to the Docker desktop here and if I click on the builders here, my local builder
one is currently configured as the default builder.
Anyway, that is fine.
Whatever is configured default is not the key thing.
Here we are going to.
When running the Docker build build command, we will also specify the builder with which we are going
to create a Docker image so that there is no issue with that run build using local builder.
So we will go to multi-platform build cloud demo.
We will go to Docker Images.
We'll run it.
And here Docker build X build and will provide hyphen hyphen builder and provide the builder name.
And we will provide the platform on what all platforms we need to create the Docker image.
and will provide you a Docker username and local builder demo1 and then hyphen, hyphen, push and then
dot.
So like that our command is going to be.
So this is the command which we are going to use.
In your case.
You need to change your Docker ID here.
And you also need to ensure that you are in the location.
Demo 39 Multi-platform Docker images where you have the same Docker file.
Whatever we have seen in our previous demos, right?
So if you go back to the Visual Studio Code here and in demo 39, you can see the Docker file which
is from ingenix and copy index.html to usr share nginx.
HTML, that is all.
And in index.html you can see, uh, we are saying that docker build cloud demo one is the demo name.
We are seeing it here.
Now let's come back here and we are going to run the command which is uh, we are using the my local
builder one here to build this Docker image in my local builder one, and let's see how much time it
takes to build it.
So it is still running and it is trying to push it.
Let's wait for it to push the Docker image.
So we can see it here.
It took close to 25.2 seconds to create a Docker image, right?
If we go back here to our Hub.docker.com hub.docker.com.
And if I see the repositories local builder demo one is pushed here.
And if you open that and click on the tags here you can see for Amd64 and ARM 64.
It created the uh Docker images.
And now if you go back here it took close to we need to remember this.
It took close to 25 seconds with the local builder, with the local builder, whatever we have created.
So this is the my local builder one.
With this it took close to 25 seconds.
Now we will try to do it with, uh, Cloud Builder and see what happens.
The same thing.
Right.
And now we will run build using Cloud Builder even for Cloud Builder.
Docker build build build and builder name is cloud stack.
Simplify my cloud builder two.
Here I need to change it to two.
This command I will try to copy it here file new text file and we will update the command here.
Right docker build x build builder is cloud stack.
Simplify my cloud builder two.
If you want.
We can also verify the same thing here.
This is the builder name cloud uh stack.
Simplify my cloud builder two.
Or we can say docker build x ls and then copy the name of the builder from here.
So this is the name.
Let me copy it copy and put it here okay.
And platform we are using is Linux amd64 and Linux Arm 64.
So for two platforms we are generating the Docker image name is hyphen t stack simplify slash cloud
builder demo 101 and hyphen hyphen push and then dot.
So let me copy this and then try to run it.
So with local builder it took close to 25.2 seconds.
Now with Cloud Builder let's try the same thing right.
And it is trying to build.
And let's wait for it and see what happens.
It is running and it is trying to push.
Now it is close to eight seconds.
Now build time.
And now it is 12 seconds and it's pushed already.
Okay.
Now if you see the time here for this okay.
How much time it took completely building.
And let's come down.
Come down.
It took close to 14 seconds to complete it.
So for the cloud it took 14 seconds.
And if you go up for the local builder, it took 25 seconds.
Right.
So that is the difference.
Okay.
So with Cloud Builder things are going to be super fast.
So that is what we have clearly explored okay.
Now the next thing is set Cloud Builder as default builder.
How to do that.
Docker build x.
Use and provide your cloud builder name and say hyphen hyphen global.
So I will copy this right.
And mine is Cloud Builder two and hyphen Hyphen global.
And now if we go back to the Docker desktop here and if I click on builders you can see my this cloud
builder became the default builder here.
Default builder.
So that's the thing.
And if you want to switch it back create builds without specifying hyphen hyphen builder.
Then you can make it as the default builder.
Now anything if I run right docker build X build and then platform and then uh, use the builder name
and then try to push it automatically.
It will use the cloud builder itself.
So let's see that now.
Okay I'll copy these things right.
And I'm saying Cloud Builder demo 102.
That's all.
Stack simplify slash cloud builder demo 102I am not specifying any hyphen hyphen builder here, but
it should use the remote builder.
Now we can see cloud stack simplify.
My cloud builder is getting used here.
You can see my Cloud Builder two is getting used.
And let's see how much time it takes to build the entire image.
Right.
So let's see.
It is still running merging the manifests and then trying to push it.
So it took close to 13 seconds to complete the build.
And now if you go back to our Docker Hub here and click on repositories, you can see Cloud Builder
demo one zero 1 or 1 zero two is present here.
And for them if you see the tags also you should see it has built both Linux AMD 64 and Linux ARM 64
related Docker images.
Now let's go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created.
Right.
So we'll stop the local builder and then remove the local builder first.
Okay.
Once we stop the local builder, my local builder one.
Let me stop it and remove it.
And once it is removed, it's equivalent Docker images.
Also, I am going to remove and remove build caches using the docker build x prune and using the hyphen
hyphen builder and providing the builder name.
You can even remove the build caches.
So example for the remote build cache, I'll try to remove my Cloud Builder two and then hyphen f is
I am trying to force.
If I don't force it, it will ask for the warning whether I want to remove or not.
And if I say yes, it will be removed, or if I say hyphen F, then automatically forcibly it will be
removed.
And my build cache on my remote builder, which is nothing but the cloud builder is cleared up now,
So that way you can also remove build caches.
And now let's come back here to our Docker desktop and ensure that we are using any of our regular ones
instead of Cloud Builder.
I will try to use desktop Linux and this is the cloud builder we have.
And now if we go back to the cloud builder.
So this is the cloud builder we have created.
And currently I have one zero eight minutes remaining for this month.
For 130 I am using a Pro subscription, so mine is a Pro subscription.
If you can also see here in the Docker desktop, right?
Docker Desktop Pro for that purpose.
They are giving me close to 100 minutes or 130 minutes per month to run the, uh, to use the cloud
builder on the build cloud.
Okay, but for regular free subscriptions, we don't have access to this.
Okay, so earlier it used to be a trial version, but this might be closing sometime very soon, I think.
Or even they have removed I don't remember.
Okay.
That is the key thing.
And here are some of the settings you can see inside this build cloud.
So we'll go ahead and then try to click on the build history here.
Right.
And then you can see the build history completely in detail.
What happened.
And now if we go to the build minutes here right.
So we'll go to the build minutes.
And here you can see the changes from November 15th 2024 onwards.
Docker Build Cloud will only be available with Docker Pro team and business plans.
Okay, so it will not be available for the free users anymore.
And you can see they have given 100 total minutes for me.
And as a promotional build minutes they have given total 30.
So out of which I have used 12 minutes and still 96 is remaining here.
And these are the things related to Docker build cloud, right?
And in our next demo we will focus on another Docker concept.
So this completes the build cloud demo I'll see you in the next demo.
Until then bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-01: Introduction to Docker Multi-stage Builds ---

Welcome back.
In this demo we are going to learn about Docker multi-stage builds.
So these multi-stage Docker file keeps the final image lightweight by avoiding build tools and development
dependencies in the final stage.
So if you see here right in the stage one, in the builder stage, you are saying from node bookworm
as builder, right?
And we are using the Workdir slash app.
And this is a simple uh, node NodeJS application.
So we are going to copy package.json file also to app directory and install the Node.js related uh packages
and which are also at production level only.
Now ideally we can we don't need to use production flag, but still we are ensuring that we need only
production grade packages here.
So we have used the flag hyphen hyphen production.
And we are also going to copy the uh, JS files present in our directory to this respective, stage
one.
And after that, what we are going to do is we will start the stage two right in the stage two.
What we are going to do is we are going to use node Bookworm Slim here.
We have used the uh, major image.
And then here we have used still the slimmer image as final uh stage.
And we have used the Workdir slash app and copy from builder stage hyphen hyphen from equal to builder,
which means from this builder stage in slash app directory.
What is there in the builder stage?
Copy to this directory.
Dot slash means dot current directory, which is again here.
Also it is to slash app directory only expose port 8080 and then start the Node.js application.
So this is what we have done on a high level.
But what happens here is we are going to make our final Docker image very lightweight.
We will avoid any build tools or development dependencies which can be included in stage one, and which
do not need to be included in the final stage.
Only production dependencies and necessary application code are included in the final stage, which
reduces the image size and also the potential attack surface from the security perspective, and you
can see that the final image will be very lightweight when compared to the, uh, single stage build
when you run it.
Okay, so as we are using the node Bookworm Slim in the final stage further reduces the image size compared
to the full node bookworm image making deployments faster and also resource efficient.
And also we will have the improved security by using these multi-stage Docker builds by keeping only
production dependencies and excluding all unnecessary build files.
This approach reduces the risk of vulnerabilities the smaller the image size also makes it easier to
audit and also manage.
Let's go ahead and then practically implement this and understand in detail.
I will see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.

--- Step-02: Implement Multi-stage Docker Builds ---

Welcome back.
We are in demo 40, our section 40 where we are going to learn about multi-stage Docker builds.
So here we are going to use the simple NodeJS application wherein we are going to create a Docker image
using single stage build and verify the Docker image size.
And we will also create a multi-stage build and also verify the Docker image size.
The important thing here is that using multi-stage builds, how we are going to reduce the size of our
Docker image is the key goal.
Okay.
And we have the folder zero one Node.js app, single stage and zero two Node.js app multi stage.
And in both the things most of the things will be common except the docker file.
In zero one you will have a single stage docker file, and in zero two you will have a multi stage docker
file.
So let us go back to our Visual Studio Code.
And we are in 40 Docker build multi-stage builds.
And here in zero one Node.js single stage you have something called package.json.
And here you are saying that a simple package.json with some, uh, you can see the versions we are
using here.
Express version.
Node.js express version we are using is so and so.
And this is the simple index.js which it says says that app listening at so and so port.
And it is saying that hello from Node.js app is the thing which it is going to respond when you access
your application with port 8080.
That is all very, very simple application.
It will respond hello from Node.js app.
That's all on port 8080 when you access it via browser.
Right.
And this is the package.json with respect to packages.
Those will be installed and we are using express package okay.
And now the next thing is we will go to the Docker file here.
And this is the single stage docker file you are saying from node bookworm as the base image.
And here we are saying Workdir slash app.
Write and copy.
Copying package.json to slash app directory.
We said dot slash so it will copy to the current working directory.
And then we will install the npm packages.
And then we are using the hyphen hyphen production flag here.
And after that we will also copy the star dot js which is all the JS files, not only index dot js if
you have any other files also.
So copy star dot js to dot means it will also copy to slash app.
And we will expose this application on port 8080.
And we will run the command final command which is command npm start.
So Node.js application will be started.
So this is zero one Node.js app single stage right.
So let's go ahead and then build a Docker image for this and then see what happens.
So we'll go down and build Docker image here.
So we have reviewed the single stage Docker file.
We will build the Docker image.
Now we'll be in CD zero one NodeJS app single stage.
And we'll build the docker image using docker build t and provide the docker image as nodejs.
Hello single stage.
And then at the end where the docker file is present, that is the current directory dot.
Okay.
So now let me copy this and go to your terminal here.
Come out of the previous demo.
We'll go to demo 40 zero one Node.js single stage and run the Docker build command.
And let's wait for this Docker image to get created.
Means like it will be built and ready for us once that is done.
When we run the command docker images, we should see the size of the docker image.
That is the key important thing to verify.
We can see here docker image is built.
We will run clear and docker images and you can see this image size is close to 1.63 GB.
Okay.
Now we will go back here and then review the zero two Node.js multi-stage app okay, index.js and package.json
are going to be same, but in the docker file we are saying from node bookworm as builder.
So this is the builder stage only.
We are setting the working directory as slash app here.
And we are also going to copy the package dot JSON to the current directory, which is slash app, and
also installing the packages here and also copying all the JS files to this slash app directory.
So this is the builder stage.
Once the builder stage is completed, we are going to go to the final stage right in the final stage.
What we are doing is we are saying Node and Bookworm Slim we are using.
So here we have used bookworm.
Maybe the packages here needs a fully loaded mission.
So for that purpose we have used this way.
So this might not be 100% real for this simple application, but for major when we are building with
major applications in the Linux mission.
Whatever we are using as a Docker image there, we might need multiple packages present inside that
when we are building the application, but when we are running it, we might not need all those packages.
So for assuming that in assuming that here.
So for building we have used the node bookworm and for running the application we are using Node bookworm
slim as final.
And we are using the working Workdir as slash app for this stage also.
And then we are going to copy from builder.
So from this builder stage we are going to copy the content whatever we have generated in builder stage
in folder slash app to dot slash dot slash is nothing but this slash app directory in stage two in final
stage okay, so copy from builder, slash app from builder.
And in that we have the slash app directory.
From there we are copying to dot slash which is nothing but this one.
and we are going to expose the application as port 8080 and we are going to npm start the application.
So which means the final Docker image will be built based on these details, which means it will use
the base Docker image as Bookworm Slim and uses the workday workday slash app, and it will copy the
contents present inside that builder directory, inside slash app, whatever is there those things and
expose the application on 8080 and start the application.
That is all.
So we will go back here and go to go to our zero two Node.js multistage.
We will go here.
Come out of zero one we will go to zero two Node.js multistage.
And you can see you have the docker file index.js and then package.json.
So this docker file is nothing but this multi-stage docker file.
Now we will run the command docker build hyphen Node.js.
Hello multistage.
We are going to run with docker file present in the current directory.
right?
Dot.
And let's wait for this Docker image to build.
It is saying that uh you can see it here.
It is building it now.
And if we see the Docker image size.
So let's wait for it to build.
And after that if we run the Docker images here right you can see Node.js.
Hello multi-stage is now only 330 MB because you have used the node Node.js related image node bookworm
slim docker image.
Right.
And now it is only 330 MB.
If you want, you can also run the application and verify your application whatever you have deployed
from both Docker images.
So example like for the first one you can run docker run node.js app single stage as the container name,
run it in detached mode and port you are going to use on your local desktop is 8091 and 8080.
Is your Node.js port.
So you can see here container port is 8080 for both the things for multistage or for the single stage.
8080 is the container port.
And this is the Docker image right.
So let me copy this and run it.
This will run one container.
And the below one also will run another container.
Okay.
So this is the one.
And now if we go back to our browser here and we'll go here incognito window we'll say localhost and
8091.
And we can see hello from Node.js app.
In the same way we can go to 8092.
And you can say hello from Node.js app.
So it's very clear that we are able to reduce the Docker image sizes okay.
Docker image sizes using multi-stage builds.
Why?
Because in the single stage, we might need a image during the build time with a lot of modules or lot
of packages presented in it, and in the.
But when we are doing it with multi-stage, we can separate the build stage with the final run stage,
which means like with whatever the minimum content, you can run your code that run stage, you can
separate it.
And only with the run stage you can create the Docker container.
We really don't need the all the, uh, all the packages, whatever we have installed as part of the
build stage.
So that's the key thing here.
So we can see for single stage it is 1.63 GB.
And for multi stage it is 330 MB.
Now let's go ahead and then clean up whatever we have created here.
Docker rm hyphen f and dollar dollar docker PS hyphen aq will remove all the containers and docker rmi
dollar docker images.
Hyphen q will remove all docker images.
So this should clean up whatever we have created as part of this demo.
I will see you in the next demo.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.
