

=== Introduction ===


--- Introduction to Apache Beam ---

Hello, guys.
I will kick off this course by giving an introduction and basic idea of beam.
So what is Apache Beam?
Beam is the latest open source project of Apache, which is an unified programming model for expressing
efficient and portable data processing pipelines.
Actually, it is just another programming model for distributed data processing.
But with these two highlighted words as its strength unified and portable.
Talking about unified C in this area, we have a lot of different use cases in a common data processing
paradigm.
We do batch processing in which we process very big files, usually containing all data.
Then we have stream processing which processes real time streaming data, for example, Twitter data,
data from Iot devices, sensors, stock data, etc. Now in our older programming models of frameworks
like Hadoop, Spark Flink, we have different abstractions and APIs to process batches and streaming
data, like in Apache Spark, we have RTDs or data frames to do batch processing and data streams for
stream processing.
Similarly, in Apache Flink, we have data sets for batch and data stream API for stream processing,
but in beam we have one unified API to process both these two types of data.
We don't have separate APIs for them.
Rather, we use one unified API to do all types of processing.
So while you are building a beam pipeline, you are not much concerned about what type of pipeline you
are building.
If you are building a batch pipeline or streaming pipeline, it doesn't matter at all.
Only that data matters.
That's it.
Actually, if you notice the name itself, Beam word was coined from the combination of two words batch
and stream.
The community wants to change the way in which we see our data going forward in future.
They want the data to be seen as data only and not into batches and streams.
This is one strong point and the vision of beam.
And in fact, the main reason of why this project was started, we are going to learn more about what
that unified API is in coming lectures.
And if you are very new into this and have no idea of what is batch and streams and difference between
them, then I would recommend you to watch a lecture named Batch versus Stream processing this course.
Now, the second highlighted word was portable.
Portable as a name suggest means which is adjustable to all.
In beam context.
It means just develop your code and run it anywhere.
Beam code, once created, can be run on any of the execution frameworks you choose, like Apache Spark,
Apache Flying, Apache, SAMHSA, Google Cloud, Dataflow, and many are in the row.
Earlier it was not like that.
You cannot run a spark color code in Flint cluster, vice versa.
You could not run Apache of Link's code in Spark cluster, right?
But Apache Beams programming model gives you this freedom.
While we are using beam, we just have to focus on our use, case, logic and data without considering
any runtime details.
In beam, we have a very clear separation of runtime layer and programming layer, so create a beam
pipeline and run it anywhere.
This portability has one very obvious advantage as the pipeline is developed only once and over the
time, if you want to change the runtime, like switching from spark to fling or fling to cloud data
flow, or even in future, if any new engine is coming, then you or your company doesn't have to worry
about the development of logics.
If that engine is supporting beam, then the migration would be like a cakewalk.
Apart from this, Apache beam pipelines can be created in multiple languages.
That is Java, Python, Go and many are in the row.
You can choose your favorite language and start building pipelines.
As a back end runner.
Currently it supports Apache Spark, Flink Cloud Dataflow, Apache Apex, Apache Samsa and also it supports
Apache Gear Bomb, which is an incubating project of Apache.
So in short, Apache Beam is one stop shop for all the languages to write data processing pipelines
and also for the execution engines to run the pipeline.
Non.
Technically, if I say beam was started in 2016 and now it has become the top level project of Apache,
not only Apache, but actually this has become the topmost project for all the vendors.
Why?
Since it is providing a portable model of building data processing pipelines.
So it is obvious that all the companies are going to adopt this model in case they have to switch between
the runners.
They don't have to rebuild the whole code.
Seeing this, all the runners like Spark Fling, Cloud, Data Flow are working extensively to adjust
their systems according to Beam programming model.
The product is this much that all of them are even ready to make changes in their existing systems so
as to satisfy the B model, not only the runners community, the programming language community is also
working hard to build libraries so as to give support for beam.
Java has taken the lead.
As of now.
They have created a good number of libraries for it.
Python is number two and as the beam itself is evolving, lot, many other languages are starting their
journey in providing beam based libraries to its users.
Moving next, its first version was introduced in June 2016 and this is its git repository.
If you want to keep a track of progress they are making.
Uh, I think that's enough for the introduction.
Let's explore Beame theoretically, as well as practically in this course.
Thank you.

--- Evolution of Big data Frameworks ---

Before going further into Beam let us see
how the distributed data processing evolved
over the time.
Ok, so in 2004 google published Mapreduce
paper which fundamentally changed the way
we process distributed data.
Basically with Mapreduce the whole processing
was getting done in two steps.
A map and a reduce phase.
Now google took this Mapreduce and continued
to innovate more systems and papers over the
time but they were not an open source products
and were not initially released publicly,
they were only being used at google internally
within their systems.
And meanwhile at the same time, Open source
communities like Apache took that MapReduce
paper and created Hadoop which was like a
revolution in the Big data processing frameworks.
Hadoop used Mapreduce as base and started
doing distributed processing as key value
pairs.
Now
even though It managed to provide Scalability
and simplicity in distributed processing world
using low cost machines.
But sooner we realized that at core Mapreduce
is just a single select and groupby.
Mapreduce worked well for the use cases which
can be broken into a map and reduce phase
but for many real-world use cases, a chain
of Map and reduce stages is required.
A chain of Mapreduce jobs means a lot of disk
reads and writes, apparently increasing the
overall processing time.
That is why there was a need of a high-level
API that can create a pipeline of operations
with less hdfs read, writes.
That’s what from where Flume arose.
Flume basically was the Orchestration and
optimization of Mapreduce.
Rather than a single operation, flume creates
a graph of multiple operations which eventually
get converted into an optimized series of Mapreduces
without multiple hdfs writes.
Actually, later on it was Flume which emerged
as the base programming model for Spark and
Flink as well.
Then we have Spark, a lightening fast processing
engine which they promise to be 100 times
faster than Hadoop.
It supported both Batch and stream processing.
At core it does lazy evaluation of the program,
creates a DAG of the code and then execute
it.
Spark streaming is also fast but it does not
have any mechanism to handle late elements
or we can say out of order elements in a window.
We will discuss what are these late elements
further in the course.
So, Spark was not prepared to Handle out of
order elements which was later on addressed
by a new Apache product i.e.
Flink
Flink was more or less same like Spark but
with more speed, performance and automated
tuning.
It was actually the first engine which started
considering a data stream as a first class
citizen and that is why it became a true stream
processing engine.
But the major thing was its ability to handle
out of order elements in a stream.
It had a lot of mechanisms like watermarking, states,
triggers etc to do so.
In google side they had Millwheel created
for the same thing.
Millwheel can be seen as Flink of Google or
vice versa.
So this was how Apache evolved in its side
with lot many other technologies like HBase,
a columnar database, Tez engine, Oozie for
scheduling,  hive etc.
Basically, Apache created a whole new open
source ecosystem for end to end Big data processing
that came into being after Mapreduce.
Now coming towards google side.
Till 2014 google did not publish any of their
papers or systems they were using internally,
but in 2014 google thought of creating a code
rather than publishing a paper of it.
So by using all of its historical papers and
systems, google created cloud dataflow as
a part of Google cloud platform GCP.
Cloud dataflow is a fully managed service
for creating and executing optimized parallel
data processing pipelines.
It is basically both a programming model i.e.
a SDK for writing data processing pipelines
and also fully managed service for executing
them.So developing and  executing them both.
Actually, cloud dataflow was the one which
proposed unified batch and stream data processing.
Later on, Google provided the model and SDK to Apache
in beginning of 2016 to create their own model
on top of it.
Now as you can see there are 2 separate worlds flourishing
in their own zone.
These zones were isolated from each other
and the components in them cannot integrate
with each other.
Means You cannot just create a spark scala
code and run it using Google Cloud dataflow
OR vice versa, code created for Google Millwheel
cannot be run on Apache’s engines.
Now what Beam is doing, Beam is bringing these
2 worlds together.
It is based on Dataflow programming model
and generalising integrated with a broader
Big data ecosystem.
After this integration, you can now build
language agnostic pipelines using Apache Beam
programming model and run it anywhere either
on Open source runners or on Google cloud
dataflow.
Basically, it means if you write a code in
Beam then it can be run on any of the Google’s
or Apache’s engines.
Moreover, Beam  has also separated the tight
integration of language SDks and its runners.
With this You can now choose any of the programming
language that Beam supports, build pipelines using that language
and run it on any engine.
So create a beam program in any of your favourite
language and run that program in any of your
favourite engine.
So guys this was the story of How and why
Beam was introduced.
Now through out the course we are going to
learn how exactly to write a beam code or
I would say how to build Beam pipelines and
execute them.
See you in next lecture.


=== Transformations in Beam ===


--- Architecture of Apache Beam ---

Welcome students.
In this lecture, we will discuss about the architecture of a B model and see what are the various components
in it and their roles.
So first and foremost is a beam itself, the beam abstractions for unified processing, which is the
core of Apache Beam.
Then we have various language specific Sdhc Sdhc full form software development kit is a library that
lets the user build beam pipelines.
The beam DCS provide a unified programming model that can represent and transform data sets of any size,
whether the input is a final set from a batch data source or an infinite set from a streaming data source.
The Beam SD case use the same classes to represent both batch and streaming data and the same transforms
to operate on that data.
In simpler words, Beam SDK is are nothing but the languages in which the user can create its pipeline.
User can choose their own favorite and comfortable SDK.
Then now it supports Java, Python and go Java and Python are ahead in the race and have evolved much
over the time in future.
As the community is growing, new SDK are getting integrated.
I think they have started it for Scala and are also now once the pipeline is defined in any of the supported
languages, it is going to get converted into language generic standard, which can be done on any of
the runners.
This conversion is done internally by a set of APIs.
One thing here I would like to mention is that this generic format is not fully language generic, but
we can say a partial one.
This conversion only generalizes the basic things which are the code transforms and are common to all.
Like a map function group by filter these things.
But we still need the language specific primitives.
Or you can say user defined functions to be resolved.
Obviously, a user defined function in Java can be understood by Java only.
Our function can be understood by r only.
So for each of the SDK there is a corresponding SDK worker whose task is to understand the language,
specific things and resolve them.
These workers provide a consistent environment to execute our code and for each language sdhc.
We have a specific sdhc worker.
So now it doesn't matter which runner we are using, as long as we have this render API and language
specific Sdhc workers, the same code can be executed on any of the runners.
So if I can show you dynamically, this is what Beam is doing.
You write your program in any of the language.
For example, in this image I'm doing a filtering of data, wrote the same filter in multiple languages.
Beam will convert our program into language agnostic format, and if at all we have any language specific
primitives, they will be resolved by sdhc a specific worker.
And then the final code can be done on any of the runners.
Simple.
Now by adding this layer of Radnor API and Sdhc workers, Beem has made it very easy for community to
evolve these components in parallel.
You can add a new SDK without knowing the working of the runners.
Similarly, you can add a new runner without knowing the details of Sdhc.
Now, students usually get confused and ask me this question Why?
Beam when we had spark and fling.
Does Beam gives us better performance results than other engines?
Answer to these questions is that Beam project was started with only one main focus to build a programming
model.
Having a unified abstraction for batch and stream and one code is capable of running in multiple processing
engines, and they have followed the vision so far.
And if we talk about performance, then comparison between Beam, Spark and Fling is itself invalid,
as Beam is a pure programming model and other two are execution engines.
Beam is just a model to write a pipeline.
Or at this stage I can say to write a program.
That beam program is anyways executed on multiple execution engines.
So it's the performance of Execute US that matters, not the program.
It matters whether SPARC is good or Flink is good or cloud data flow is good.
This is a valid question.
Comparison between these engines is, however, a different topic.
But if you want to learn the comparison between spark and fling, then I have attached a lecture for
it.
In that section you can go and check.
And since the performance of Run does matter here much, that is why all the executer communities,
SPARC, community Fling, SAMHSA, etc. are trying their best to make their systems adapted according
to the B model.
They are even tweaking their running systems for this because beam is the future and getting ready for
the future is a profitable thing.
Now, one more component I would like to add here is.
Funny API.
This API has a set of protocols which allows various sdhc workers to talk to the runners in a consistent
manner to move the information to and fro between runners and sdhc workers.
There should be a common and proper channel defined.
Those channels are defined in for an API.
All right.
So to summarize this architecture, I would say that user interacts with the comfortable language specific
SDK, write the code or in beam specific terminology.
I would say create a pipeline.
The honor API would convert it into language generic format.
Below we have SDG workers, each particular foreign language, the execution engines which are sitting
in the middle, listens to both an API and an API and execute whatever both API is provided to them.
Each of the execution framework will do the execution and is also responsible for managing the resources,
tasks, worker machines, etc. things.
So guys, this was the basic architecture of Apache Beam.
I hope you understood it.
Thanks.


=== Side Inputs and Outputs ===


--- Flow of Beam's Programming Model ---

Let’s now have a look at Beam’s programming
model and also discuss about the basic terminologies
of beam which we will be using later all the
time throughout this course.
So this is the flow of Beam’s programming
model.
It takes an input, read it and then after
undergoing a number of transforms, output
is written.
No doubt it looks like Spark’s or Flink’s
programming model only, where we have an input
dataset on which we apply a number of transformations
step by step to generate a final output.
Now this input can be a plaintext, formatted
log files, or rows in a database table or
any stream of data from Kafka, google cloud
Pub/Sub, anything.
And the output here can be a file, in memory,
or HDFS or GFS etc.
In this course we will try covering most of
the input and output types available.
But our major focus will not be onthe edges
but this middle portion i.e. the transformations.
Like any other model, Beam also has a number
of transformations available that help us
to slice and dice the data according to our
requirements.
Anyways, so this lecture was about the basic
flow of a beam program.
Let me explain its theory first.
So, assume we have a requirement, where from
a txt file we want to count the attendance
of employees of  Accounts Department, then
what will be the series of events.
The flow might be familiar to guys having
knowledge of spark or flink but for others
let me briefly explain it.
So if this is the input file,
Col1 is employee id, col2 is employee name,
col3 is dept number, then Department name and 5th col. is the dates on
which the employee was present.
So basically what I have to do is I have to
do the count of this col4 for each employee
of Accounts Department.
And this is the small code snippet for our
use case.
Please understand that this is not the full
code but a small relative part from it.
The full code of this we will learn line by
line in the coming lectures.
This lecture is just to give you  overall
flow of Beam programming model.
So as per the Beam’s model first I will
read this file using a Read transform and
the same is stored in a pcollection.
Then I will apply a filter Ptransform which
will filter out all the rows whose department
is Accounts.
The result of this filter transformation is
again internally stored in a Pcollection.
After that a groupBy Ptransform to group the
elements based on employee name.
And after that, do the sum or count operation on
the grouped Pcolleciton to get the results.
Those results you can get it in any database
or a flat file or HDFS file, as per your wish.
You can see how by using a pipe operator we
are applying the p transform and storing the
results into their corresponding pcollections.
So guys if you know spark or flink, this flow
would be very familiar with you.
Indeed, they also use the same flow.
And please ignore the coding as of now.
We will discuss it in the coming lectures
line by line.


=== Case Study - Identify Bank's Defaulter Customers ===


--- Basic Terminologies in Beam ---

Now lets discuss the basic terminologies of
Beam which I will be using again and again
in the course.
First is a Pipeline.
What is Pipeline?
A Pipeline encapsulates your entire data processing
task, from start to finish.
This includes reading input data, transforming
that data, and writing output data.
Basically, this whole thing is a pipeline
starting from the input till its full lifecycle
to output.
All Beam driver programs must create a Pipeline.
And whenever we create a Pipeline, we can also
specify the execution options that tell the
Pipeline where and how to run.
These include the Pipeline Runner, that determines
where  this pipeline will run, whether it will
be Spark, Flink, Cloud Dataflow or local.
So a Beam Pipeline can be seen as an equivalent
of full Spark code for any use case.
Next comes the Pcollection – A Pcollection
is equivalent to RDD or Dataframes of Spark.
A PCollection represents a distributed data
set that our Beam pipeline operates on.
Now The data set can be bounded, meaning it
comes from a fixed source like a file where
we know the quantity of data or it may be
unbounded,
meaning it is coming from a source which is
continuously emitting data like thru Kafka,
Google’s Pub-sub, sockets or stream APIs
etc.
This is where the unified nature of Beam comes
into picture.
See, in spark we would use different abstractions
to store the data.
RDDs for bounded data and DStream for unbounded
streams.
In Flink also we would use Dataset abstraction
for bounded and Datastream for unbounded.
But here in Beam we have only 1 unified abstraction
to store both Bounded and unbounded data and
that is Pcollection.
Our pipeline typically creates an initial
PCollection by reading data from a data source,
and after that, more PCollections keep on
creating as we apply various Ptransforms on
it.
Each pTransform on a pcollection results in
a new Pcollection making it immutable in nature.
Now talking about characteristics of a Pcollection.
They are more or less same like Spark’s
or flink’s abstractions.
First and foremost is Immutability, as I just
mentioned that Pcollections are immutable in
nature, i.e. applying a Ptransform on a pcollection
means a new pcollection will be created with
a new name.
This  we have seen in this example as well.
To begin with the first pcollection P1 was
created after the file is read. Then, when
we applied filter on P1 , it resulted in a new
p2 pcollection, then groupby on P2 resulted
in P3 pcolleciton.
So Basically Once created, you cannot add,
remove, or change individual elements in a
pcollection. A transformation on pcollection will result in a new pcollection.
Second characteristic is element type - The
elements in a PCollection may be of any type,
but all must be of the same type.
However, to support distributed processing,
Beam needs to be able to encode each individual
element as a byte string so that elements
can be passed around to distributed workers.
The Beam SDKs provide a data encoding mechanism
that includes built-in encoding for commonly-used
type as well as support for custom encodings
also.
We will cover the data encoding part further
in the course.
Third characteristic is the Pcollection
does not support grained operations.
It means that we cannot apply transformations
on some specific elements in a pcollection.
All the transforms that we apply will be applied
on whole of the pcollection  and not some elements of it.
Fourth is Element timestamps.
Each element in a PCollection has an associated
timestamp with it.
Now we have 2 types of data unbounded and bounded.
Accordingly, when the pcollection contains the unbounded
data, then the timestamp for each element
is initially assigned by the Source itself
that creates the PCollection.  And the source is  often
assigned each new element a timestamp that corresponds
to when the element was read or added.
And if a pcollection holds bounded data,
in that case every element is set to the same
timestamp.
This timestamp you can specify explicitly
or Beam will provide its own.
Actually, in any of the cases we can manually
assign timestamps to the elements,
if the source doesn’t do it for us.
Beam has some pTransforms that take a PCollection
as input and output an identical PCollection
with timestamps attached.
Guys timestamps plays a very crucial part
in Beam processing.
They go hand by hand while we perform Windowing,
assigning Watermarks, allowed lateness etc
things.
We are going to cover each of the things in
details in our course.
So these were some main characteristics
of a pcollection.
And we were discussing about the basic terminologies
in Beam. The next Big word that comes up is
Ptransform.
Ptransform is equivalent to what all transformations
we have in Spark and flink like map, reduce,
filter, aggregation operations.
May be names might differ but functionality
wise will be same.
So definition wise PTransform represents a
data processing operation, or a step, in our
pipeline.
Every PTransform takes one or more PCollection
objects as input, performs a processing function
on the elements of that PCollection, and produces
zero or more output PCollection objects.
Actually this is the core component which
is very crucial in development per se. As
developer spend most of the time in transforming
the data step by step according to customer
requirements. And here also in this course
we will spend a good amount of time in understanding
the various Ptransforms
Thank you.


=== Data encoding & decoding ===


--- Installation ---

So, guys, we are good with the theory.
Now you have the entire core idea of Apache beam.
So let's warm up our fingers and start doing practicals.
First and foremost thing is the installation, which can be a tricky thing, but I have a very quick
and hassle free solution for it.
No doubt you can install beam on your local system, but for that you have to install Python.
Then download beam related libraries, set up various paths, do connections, and as per my experience
with students, most of them are always stuck because of the compatibility and versions mismatch issue.
To avoid those issues, I'll be leveraging Google's Colaboratory, commonly known as CoLab.
CoLab is an interactive executable document that lets you write and execute Python code on cloud.
If you are familiar with Jupyter, then you can think it is an online Jupyter notebook executing the
code on Google Virtual Machine.
CoLab requires no setup and runs entirely in the virtual space on some cloud from your browser.
Google provides Ram and also disk for execution and storing files.
Moreover, since Beam is an evolving technology with frequent version updates so you don't have to worry
about reinstalling beam again and again to run the updated features.
So the basic requirement of CoLab is that you should have a Google account by saying not much.
Let us see how to use it.
All right.
So if you Google CoLab.
Click on first link.
And we have it.
It gives you some pre-created examples.
Google Drive link to store your notebooks.
GitHub checkout options and an option to upload local system files.
These are some default examples to showcase its interactive working.
This is one small python snippet written in cell.
Actually, a CoLab document consists of cells, each of which can contain a python code, text or images
to execute it.
Click here or press control Enter.
See this cell executed.
You can also edit this cell by simply clicking in it.
And if I'm.
Printing.
Editing.
If you want to add a new cell, then go here.
Click on the code.
And write new lines.
See, this is the beauty of CoLab.
Just open it and start coding.
No setup, no installation, nothing required.
Also, it is not system specific, so no matter if you have or have not, your system in which Beam
and python is installed, you can do all the development here from any device.
In case you want to create your own book, then go to file.
It supports Python three and Python two and beam support Python two.
As of now, Python three support is about to begin very soon.
So click and we are ready to go.
It also provides multiple notebooks saving options.
So whatever code you write here in this notebook.
You can save it in your drive.
Save it in GitHub or download it as python code or Python notebook.
I guess that's enough for CoLab.
Now, how do we create a beam code in CoLab?
Actually, for that, we have to initiate a runtime for Apache Beam.
Since the installation is done through Shell and currently I'm kind of in Python runtime.
So to run any shell command from Python, just put an exclamation mark in front of any shell command.
If you have to install beam in your local system, you would have to run this command in your system.
Shell.
And here in Python, just put an exclamation before it and the whole command in curly braces.
Okay.
So it is getting the environment ready for us.
Just a few seconds it will take.
Yeah.
Done.
Now we have Apache Beam runtime with us and see here Google has provided us some Ram and disk for our
operations.
So guys, basically Google has provided us with a virtual machine with Python installed in it.
And on that virtual machine now we have Apache Beam runtime two.
Let me also create a directory in this machine for my files code.
It got created.
Do less.
Yeah, it is here.
The sample data is by default.
Now, one more prerequisite before we start building beam pipeline is how to upload data in cloud.
Since my data files will be present in my local system to upload local files and data into this virtual
machine, I have these two lines of code.
Run it.
It will prompt us to choose a file.
Browse it.
And upload.
Our file got uploaded in virtual machine.
Let me check.
Yes, here it is.
Now, if I do.
Cat.
These are the contents of my file.
And if you want to clear the output, clear it from here.
Okay, So if you want to save this notebook, then go to file, save a copy in drive.
But before that, let me change the name of it.
Now this whole notebook will be saved in Google Drive with name as copy of test.
If I go to my Google Drive.
All your notebooks will be stored in CoLab notebooks folder.
See it is here.
And if you want to view it again, simply right click and open with colaboratory.
Sometimes Colaboratory is not added here.
You just have to add by using Connect more apps.
Click on connect more apps and find colaboratory.
You just have to add it.
I'll open this.
Want to do editing in this notebook.
Then either it will open in editing mode itself.
If not, then there will be an option on top left of it saying Open it in playground mode.
Click on it and your notebook will open in editing mode.
So that's all for the installation and environment setup.
And now we are ready to create our first beam pipeline.


=== Type Hints in Beam ===


--- Structure of a Beam Pipeline ---

Welcome guys, in this video we will take our
first step towards building a Beam driver
program.
Before learning any Ptransforms, we should
know how to write a Beam driver program in
Python style and what are the mandatory and
common lines of code which would be common
to any Python Beam program.
So, I will be using the same example which
I explained in programming flow lecture.
I will recall it again.
So, if we have this file in which file first
column is employee id, second col emp name,
3rd is dept no, then dept name and at last
the dates on which employee was present.
From this data we have to calculate attendance
count of each of the employees in accounts
department.
and yes since we are processing a static file,
so it means this is a kind of classic batch
processing only.
umm, ok so this is the whole code for the
same.
Again, I would say to Just look at it once
and not go in details as we would be creating
this code from scratch in a bit.
For the time just understand that A typical
Beam driver program can be divided into 5
major parts.
Ist, is giving pipeline a name, this is a
mandatory line of code.
2nd, Create initial Pcollection by reading
any file, stream or database.
3rd, apply PTransforms according to your use
case.
You can see, I have used a no. of transforms
here in this pipeline and each of the transform
is applied by a Pipe operator.
Actually, to invoke a transform, you must
apply it to the input PCollection.
Each transform in the Beam SDKs has a generic
apply method which we can use as (.apply)
or we can also replace it by a pipe operator.
Just like in spark and flink we use to apply
transformations using a dot, here in beam
we have a pipe for the same.
Ok, after all transforms, 4th step is Write
the final Pcollection to an external source.
May be a file, database or a stream.
And Finally Run it.
Let us now create this code from scratch,
while understanding various transforms involved
in it.
We know that in any code in this world require
some imports and in beam we have apache_beam
library.
Let me alias this as beam so that it is easy
to use.
Now create and name our pipeline
P1 = beam.pipeline( )
Actually, our beam library has a pipeline
method in it which fully controls the lifecycle
of it so here I am creating a pipeline P1
using that method.
And since I have given that library an alias
name ‘beam’ so will write beam.pipeline,
if alias is not given then you would have
to write apche_beam.pipeline.
Obvious thing.
Now write the final pcollection name.
pCollection attendance_count equals to.
All the further transformations that will
be written in these brackets will get applied
in a sequence manner and the final results
will be stored in this attendance_count pcollection.
We can create any number of pcollections in
a pipeline.
For each and every transform what we will
be applying next, we can create a separate
pcollection for them.
But it is not required for our use case since
every transform is sequential.
Now coming inside the pipeline, on pipeline
p1, first of all I have to read the input
file, for that we have various read transforms,
actually not only from files When you create
a pipeline, you often need to read data from
some external source, such as a file or a
database or from any other source.
Likewise, you may want your pipeline to output
its result data to an external storage system.
So, Beam provides read and write transforms
for a number of common data storage types.
If you want your pipeline to read from or
write to a data storage that isn’t supported
by the built-in transforms then you can even
implement your own read and write transforms.
Currently the support is specific as per SDKs.
Java SDK is the most enhanced one as per current
situation as it supports a wide variety of
storages, Python is number 2 in the race and
is continuously developing new I/O connectors
at a rapid rate.
Anyways we will discuss an overall picture
of I/O.
And all of the transforms which we are going
to discuss next will be used in pipeline like
this pipeline name | beam.io. various transforms
and in parenthesis the parameters specific
to that transform.
A transform can have 1 or more number of parameters
out of which some are mandatory to provide,
and others are optional.
Alright, So I will pause this building pipeline
here and will show you what all types of input
and output does Beam supports.


=== Build Streaming data Pipelines ===


--- Various Read Transforms in Beam ---

So First are file based IOs. Beam supports
read and write from a number of file formats
like Text, avro, parquet.
First transform is Read from Text. This format
parses a text file as newline delimited elements,
means by default every line in file will be
treated as a single element. Read from text
has a total of 5 to 6 parameters) which comes
handy if you want to have full control while
reading a file. Let me give you a short description
for each of these parameters.
First is file_pattern. This parameter specifies
the full path of the input file. It can be
a local path or path from your cloud. And
yes, this path can contain glob characters also.
Means we can specify a * while reading multiple
files from a directory.
This path means it will read all the files
which start with input keyword.
2nd is minimum bundle size – this parameter
specifies the min size of bundles that should
be generated when splitting the source into
bundles. Now what is this bundle. Guys, actually
all of the elements of Pcollection are not
processed as a whole at once, rather a Pcollection
is virtually divided into many batches internally,
known as bundles. Those bundles are then processed
parallelly on different machines. And the
value of this parameter decides what should
be the minimum bundle size of your pcollection.
And obviously this parameter should be an
integer.
3rd is compression type – this is used to
handle compressed input files in case your
input file is compressed. This is usually
we don’t provide explicitly as beam will
use the provided file path’s extension to
detect the type of compression of input file.
For example, if we have gzip file, then our
input path will be like this.
From this path only, it will detect the compression
type. But if  you want to handle the compressed
input files yourself, then you can explicitly
provide here the compression type.
4th parameter is strip_trailing_newlines : this
indicates whether the source should remove
the newline character i.e. /n in each line
before decoding that line. It is a Boolean
field.
If set to true then end line is removed and
not read.
If set to false then end line in not removed
and is read as an empty line.
By default its value is True.
Let me show u a screenshot of an example.
So here I have read a file having 2 lines in
it and simply wrote it in output file. So
if am reading the first line Hello there.
With this parameter as true the end line character
/n which is virtually there after Hello there
is removed before I read it. Therefore only
Hello there is read and the same is output.
But if I set this parameter to false, then
the newline character at the end, is not removed
before reading Hello there, therefore beam
will read this line as hello there and a newline character.
hence in the output you will see an extra
empty line. Clear. Ok
So 5th parameter is validate. It is also a
Boolean flag which verifies  if the files exist
during the pipeline creation time. If set
to true it will check if the input file is
present or not, if not then pipeline is not
created and Beam will throw an error, IF set to false
then Beam does not verify the presence of
file and creates the pipeline, even though
exception will be given but you can see the
empty output file. It is recommended to set
this parameter to true and that is why By
default it is true.
Last parameter is skip header lines – this
is a important thing as a developer. It is
useful in handling files which comes with
headers. We definitely don’t want to read
and process the headers so we can skip reading
it by this parameter. provide the number of
lines you want to skip in your input file.
Ok so this is done, now moving to ReadFromAvro
This is to read one or set of avro files.it
has some 4 parameters
Ist 3 are same as of read from text transform
i.e. full input path, min bundle size, validate
4th parameter is new one which is use_fastavro.
– it is a Boolean flag which when set, uses
the fastavro library to read the avro file.
This library is significantly faster and will
likely become the default in future Beam releases.
But as of now you have to set this parameter
to true to use fastavro library.
The 3rd input transform is read from parquet.
This is to read parquet files. With 1st 3
parameters being same and the 4th one is columns.
This specifies the list of columns that will
be read from the input file.
After parquet, the last File I/O is Read from TFRecord. This
is to read tensor flow records. Those who
don’t know. TFRecord format is a simple
format for storing a sequence of binary records.
These records are nowdays become famous since
they are serialized and therefore faster to
stream over the network. This format can also
be useful for caching any data-preprocessing.
To read tensorflow records we have readfrom
TF record. It has a list of 4 parameters.
3 are same as of previus types. One is new
which is coder which specfies the coder name
used to deocde each TF record.
So these were various file based read transforms.
Next comes. read from messaging queues.
Guys, Beam overall supports Apache kafka, Amazon
kinesis, JMS, Mqtt and Google cloud pub sub.
Java supports almost each of these but Python
till now only supports Google cloud Pub sub. We have
ReadFromPubSub transform for it. It  has a list of some 5 parameters
Topic – For this parameter we have to provide
the topic name where the messages are getting
published and beam has to read from.
Next is subscription – here provide the
existing pub-sub subscription which is attached
to a particular topic. You will get more clear
picture about topic and subscription when
we integrate pubsub with Beam and read data
practically.
And yes,  for the above 2 parameters, they
are contradictory to each other. So if we
provide topic as arguments then subscription
should be none and left empty, or if we are
providing subscription in the arguments then
topic should be none and left empty. Next is  id_label – this is kind of a key
column. This specifies which attriburte of
incoming Pub/sub messages should be considered
as unique record identifier. When specified,
the value of that attribute will be used for
de duplication of messages.Otherwise if not
provided beam would guarantee any uniqueness
of data.
4th parameter is with_attributes – this
is a Boolean field. If set to true then output
elements will be of type objects.
If false, output elements will be of bytes type . By
default this parameter is set to False.
Last parameter is timestamp_attribute – As
every element in Beam has a timestamp attached
to it so here we have to specify the value
to be used as element timestamp. If you don’t
specify it then message publishing time will
be considered as element timestamp.
The argument which you specify should be a
numerical value representing the number of
millisconds since the Unix epoch.
So, this was read from PubSub transform
to read messages from Google cloud Pub sub.
We will be using this transform in the lecture
where we will use pubsub stream as input to
our beam pipeline.
Guys, Beam community is developing the I/O
connectors for Apache kafka and Apache sqoop
for Python SDK at priority. So it may be available
for us very soon.
And now talking about databases. Beam pipelines
can read data from Apache Cassandra, Apache
Hbase, Apache Kudu, Google bigquery, MongoDb,
redis, Google cloud datastore and there are
few others.
And yes one more thing, I would like to mention here that apart from reading
the data from external sources, you can also
create your own data in a pcollection. So
let me here also show you how to Create a
PCollection from in-memory data.


=== Implement Windows in Apache Beam ===


--- Create Transform ---

hereTo generate our own data, we have a transform
called create for it.
We can generate varied forms of data like
a list, set, dictionary etc.
I am going to show you few of the forms.
So in the coming examples, I will be simply
generating data using create and writing it
in an output file.
For generating a list of elements, beam.create
then square brackets and inside it specify
your elements separated by comma.
First element, second element, 3rd element and 4th element. Run it.
Ok, see create transform has generated our
data.
I have not applied any transformation on the
generated data, simply generated it and wrote
it in a file.
If you want, you can apply various transforms
on this data which are coming in next few
lectures and then output the results.
And Next, Here I created a list of numbers.
Same like above.
Above list was of _________ This is of numbers.
Yeah.
Guys 1 important piece of information if you
are performing practicals.
Beam Colab is kinda indent sensitive for few
syntaxs.
So, here if I put a space before it,
execution will throw an error saying unexpected
indent.
Pipeline run should be at the very start of
line, No spaces before it.
Same is the case for while we create a pipeline  or  expected indent
And for this also.
But inside the transforms, it is indent free
so if I am putting spaces here here, it will work.
Ok so where were we.
Yeah create transform.
If you want 2 or more columns data then pass
a list of tuples like this. It is a key value tuple.
Each element in the tuple can behave as a
single column if you further apply a map transform
on it.
Then for dictionary, you can pass key value
pairs.
For key value pairs pass it in curly braces. See, key, value, key, value.
Basically, guys it is a matter of the braces
only.
You can play with round, square and curly
braces to generate varied forms of data.
Use different combinations of these braces
and you will get different data.
So that was all about create transform and
with this we have also covered the read transforms
of beam.


=== Watermarks in Streaming environment ===


--- Various Write Transforms in Beam ---

Now corresponding to each of the discussed
read transform types we can write in them
too.
Let’s have a look at them.
So we have write to Text with few paramters.
WriteToText writes each element of the pCIllection
as a single line in the output file with newline
as a delimiter.
Discussing about its parameters we have-
first is the file_path_prefix.
This specifies the file path to write the pcollection
too.
Also The files will be written with the specified
prefix.
So if I am specifiying this as argument, then Beam will generate file or files in data
directory with file name prefix as part.
Actually the full output file name is decided
like this.
A Prefix followed by a shard identifier i.e.
number of shards followed by a suffix (if
provided).
The number of shards and suffix are 2 other parameters
coming next.
So if this is the full name of our file , then
out of it part is a prefix.. this 000 of
001 had come from number  of shards and accounts
is suffix. Then we have file name suffix parameter.
This parameter
is suffix of output file which I just discussed.
Then we have number of shards – this specifies the number
of shards or you can say the number of files
written as output.
If set then our output will be of those many
files.
So suppose we set this argument as 3 then
our output will be in 3 files each with a
middle file name of 000 of 003, then second file will be  001 of 003
and third file will be 002 of 003.
And If this argument is not set, then service
will decide on the optimal number of shards.
Actually setting this value is not recommended
as Constraining the number of shards is likely
to reduce the performance of a pipeline so
until and unless you require a specific number
of output files, you should not specify this
parameter.
Next is append_trailing_newlines (bool): It
is a Boolean field  which indicates whether
the output file should write an newline character
after writing each element.
i.e. whether the output file should be delimited
with a newline or not.
By default it is true.
Coder : this specifies the Coder name used
to encode each line.
compression_type (str): like its counter part in re transform
, this parameter is used to handle
compressed output files.
If you don’t specify any compression type
then it is decided from the  file path's
extension.
Header (str): this specifies a String to write
at beginning of output file as a header.
Ok that was all about writeTo text and its
parameters.
Moving ahead is write to Avro to write output
in avro files.
As parameters it has the file path prefix,
file name suffix , number of shards as I just
explained.
Specific to it we have
Schema – actually writing an avro file requires
a schema to be specified, so this is the parameter
for it.
Then is codec – this is the compression
codec to use for block level compression.
Any codec supported by the avro format is
accepted here.
By default it uses deflate. Then we have compression type. We already discussed it.
Then is use_fastavro , set it to true, if
you want to use fastavro library for faster
writes.
Last is mime type – pass here the mime type
to use for the produced ouput files if at
all the filesystem supports specified mime
types.
Alright, this is done. Let us proceed to next one writetoPArquet. It is used to write each element of the pcollection to Parquet file, as parameters,
file_path prefix, suffix, number of shards,
codec, mime type and schema are same.
Exclusive are
Row_group_buffer_size – This specifies the
byte size of the row group buffer, where row
group is a segment of parquet file that holds
serialized arrays of column entries.
Actually, It is an advanced feature used for
performance tuning of parquet file. Only those
can understand and set this and the next parameter
who have good knowledge of parquet file.
Record_batch_size – This specifies the number
of records in each record batch where Record
batch is a basic unit used for storing data
in the row group buffer.
Again this parameter is purely related to
parquet file.
Actually guys usually we don’t specify these
many arguments in the I/O transforms.
Generally and even in real beam projects also
we use mostly the prefix, suffix, compression
type and max to max a header.
So don’t go deep practically into all but
it’s good to have knowledge of all.
Let me quickly cover the remaining.
writeToTF record. Write each element of  the pcollection _______ flow records.
It has all those parameters which are explained
already.
Then  writeToPubSub. It writes pcollection
as a messaging stream to google cloud PubSub service.
As a parameter it has topic to which the output
is to be written to , with_attributes to decide
the type of input elements.
IF it is true then input elements will be
of type objects, if false, then bytes.
Id_label – If set, will set an attribute
for each Cloud Pub/Sub message with the given
name and a unique value.
This attribute can then be used in a ReadFromPubSub
PTransform to deduplicate messages.
Timestamp_attribute - If set, will set an
attribute for each Cloud Pub/Sub message with
the given name and the message's publish time
as the value. So here ends the write transforms. See you in the next lecture.


=== Triggers and its Implementation ===


--- Map, FlatMap & Filter - Part 1 ---

So guys I was explaining this pipeline code
to you before I/O transforms.
Let me first put this P in Caps.
We already discussed input and outputs in
detail.
Input will be dept_data.txt, also  let me write the output here
because I need to show you the intermediate
results of each of the transforms.                      In data directory, it results of each of the transforms. In data directory, prefix as output_new.
Let me also cat this output file in
the pipeline itself so that I don’t have
go in data directory and open it again and
again to show you each transform results.
This is simple unix command to see the top
20 records of our output file.
So  if I execute at this stage, Before that, put P1.run. Keep in mind the indent.  So if I  execute at this stage, ReadFromText
transform has just read the file line by line
and writeToText has written those lines in
output file.
See, this is a good advantage of doing interactive
rich coding, you will get to see the output
piece by piece.
Alright, let us see what transforms we have
in between read and write.
So Now our next step would be to tokenize
these strings into individual elements.
For that a Map transform. Beam.Map.
Map transform takes one element as input and
output 1 element, I repeat it takes 1 input
element and also outputs 1 element.
Basically, it applies a simple 1-to-1 mapping
function over each element in the collection.
In our example it should take this whole string
as a single input, split it on basis of comma
and returns a list of 5 elements.
1 input and 1 output.
So beam.Map, in the arguments I will pass
a function which will actually perform the
splitting.
Split, let us define the function here. The function split row takes
1 input, each of the strings, split
it on basis of comma delimiter  and will return a list
of 5 elements.
So if I execute , See since Map has to return 1 output element
per input, that is why it is returning a list of  5  elements and not 5 individual elements.
Guys this u and quotes are  python way of encoding
the strings in Unicode type, so you can ignore
this.
Just focus on the actual output inside this code.
I will try to figure out a way to handle this
in the next lectures.
Anyways, Map is done and there is one more operation
like Map in apache beam which is Flat Map.
Functionality wise it is almost same like
Map but with 1 difference.
While Map can output only 1 element for a
single input,
FlatMap can emit multiple elements for a single
element.
Basically, it applies a simple 1-to-many mapping
function over each element in the collection.
Let me show you.
So, in the same  code, here instead of map, I am writing flat map.
See
Since FlatMap can return multiple elements
output that’s why it has split
the string into 5 individual elements and
not a single list of 5 elements.
If you want to explicitly output a list from
FlatMap then type cast it to a list.
So here in the return I am explicitly making it to a list.
Now FlatMap is giving us a single list as output.
But for our use case Map is suitable.  so let us keep it Map only.
Next step is to filter the elements of Accounts
dept for which a filter operation. Beam.filter an inside the arguments, the method name. Define the filtering method here.
This  filtering function will take the previous
list as input and in the filtering condition
return all the elements where 4th element
of array is Accounts.
Giving us, OK, I have forgot to remove these brackets which we applied for flat map
Now filter will give us this result all the elements of accounts.
Now since we have to do a count of attendance
for each of the employees in this dataset
so further append a value 1 to each of the
names.
For that again, I have to do a map
Beam.map.
Now this time,  inside this map,  I will use a lambda function.
Guys, I could have used the above implementation
of Map also, no doubt but you know lambda
function implementation is kind of small so
better use this and even Beam also encourages
using lambda function wherever it is possible.
Students who don’t know what is a lambda
function and how it works, here is a quick
explanation to it.
A lambda function is a small anonymous function.
It is a 1 liner function which can take any
number of arguments but can only have one
expression.
This is some small example. Result is equal to lamda.
In this code I am multiplying 2 numbers using
lambda function.
This portion is the argument and
this is the expression.
We have 2 arguments but only 1 expression.
Let me call this function and print.
It  did the multiplication.
So, in our case, as argument, it is taking each
of the filtered element as input and in expression
emitting a key value pair of second element
of array as key and value 1 i.e. (name, 1)
pair.
Yes  it is working fine. Name,1 pair.
And yes same like I used lambda function for
this Map transform, you can also use the same
lambda function for the above Map and filter transform.
Your choice.
So I will paste their lambda implementations
in comments for your use.
This is for Map and this is for filter.  Now after  we
have got the  name, .one pair, we have to group it by key  and do the
sum.
In Beam we have a very good transform to perform
both these  things collectively in a single
shot.
It is CombinePerKey. So beam.
CombinePerKey  you can visualise as = groupBykey + Combiner +
reducer.
In the arguments there are few built in functions
which you can pass for common numeric operations
such as sum, min, and max.
Apart from this you can also pass your own
object here.
I won’t go into its details of it as the
whole combine thing is explained in a later
lecture of this course. For  use case
combinePerkey will group its input by
name and do the sum of its value apparently
giving us desired results which is attendance
count of each employee of Accounts department.
Guys, please note that
Please note that here in colab also if I am
running this pipeline, it will run locally.
But that local will be of my virtual machine
provided to me by google.
How to run this pipeline in spark, flink,
or cloud dataflow is also covered further in the
course.
My Pipeline ran successfully, this time lets check
the result in data directory. OK, so I have number of files here.
I guess since I was running it again and again. So it created some temporary files.
Let me change ________ new_final. Now cat this file.
Yeah we got the desired results.
Attendance count of each employee of accounts
department.
Guys one thing I would like to mention here that these input and output
locations are session based and not permanent.
Even beam runtime is session based.
So if you close this notebook and open it
again after some certain time, google will
provide you a new machine and that is why,
you have to run this command to get beam runtime.
You also have to create your  directory
and upload the new file into it.
So I would recommend you to keep this python
code snippet handy with you
so that whenever you open a new session, immediately
before anything, execute these lines. Alright, good till this. Now let me make some tweaks in this course to show you more options in the pipeline.


=== Case Study - Mobile Game Analysis ===


--- Map, FlatMap & Filter - Part 2 ---

First is the labeling thing.
Actually, you can label any transformation in the pipeline with appropriate unique label.
So if in this pipeline I'm providing a label to first transform, this is the syntax inside the quotes
put read from file.
By doing this, I have labeled my Retransform with this read from file text.
Basically, it is a kind of, you can say a unique command only particular to a transform.
This labeling comes useful while you debug your code.
An appropriate label to a transformation makes it easy to debug.
And guys, please keep in mind that no same label can be given to two transforms.
It will throw an error.
So to the second transform if I'm giving the same label.
Read from file.
It is throwing an error saying read from file does not have a stable unique label.
So change it.
See now it ran successfully.
Secondly, there is one more way to give pipeline a name and run it.
So instead of this I can write with beam dot pipeline as P1.
With this, we initiated a pipeline named P1 which will automatically run upon hitting control enter.
This time we don't need to execute the pipeline using run method.
So I can comment out this.
And yes, if we are using this syntax to create the pipeline, it needs this collection to be in a intent
of two spaces before it.
So.
See it ran automatically without run method.
So guys, that's it for the introductory code.
I hope you all might have got familiar with how a beam pipeline looks like, and how to run it and save
it in Colab.


=== Deploy Beam pipeline on Google Cloud Dataflow ===


--- Branching Pipelines ---

0
Welcome guys to this lecture.
1
This lecture is in continuation of the previous
one.
2
So in this code if we notice deeply, this
pipeline simply represent a linear flow of
3
operations, with 1 to 1 mapping.
4
See, after the first pcollection, 1 filter
operation produces 1 new pcollection.
5
On that pcollection 1 Map transform to create
1 more pcollection in this queue and so on
6
till it is written to a file.
7
However, for most of the use cases, your pipeline
can be significantly complex and branched.
8
Let me put an example for it.
9
So in the same use case if I wanted to calculate
the attendance count of both Accounts and
10
HR department, then our pipeline should look
like this.
11
This type of pipeline is called branched pipeline
in Beam, where we can use the same PCollection
12
as input for multiple transforms.
13
The pipeline reads its input from a file and
creates a initial PCollection. Then, the pipeline
14
applies multiple transforms to the same PCollection.
15
Transform A filters all the employees of HR
department and Transform B filters all the
16
employees in accounts department.
17
So in this case, 1 more pipeline gets branched
from the main pipeline.
18
In fact, when we submit this Beam driver program
to any of the runner then they will do the
19
lazy evaluation of it by creating a DAG (Directed
acyclic graph) of operations.
20
where the nodes are PCollections and the edges
are transforms.
21
So when this pipeline goes into execution,
first a DAG of this pipeline
22
is generated.
23
It will divide the pipeline into tasks and
then decide in which sequence they should
24
run and also what all tasks can be run parallelly.
25
For example, these 2 pipelines after getting
branched can be run parallelly as they are
26
independent of each other.
27
The HR filter transform would not wait for
the first filter to give results.
28
Both the filter transforms will be running
parallelly as they are independent of each
29
other.
30
So if we write this use case in our code.
31
It would be like this
32
I would be creating a pcollection which would
initially read the data from file.
33
Now create a new pcollection for accounts,
in this we will apply all the necessary transformations
34
on the input_colllection.
35
See for this accounts pcollection, I am filtering data of accounts department and after a series
36
of transforms, finally writing it in accounts
file.
37
Accounts is done.
38
Now for HR, create a new pcollection.
39
On the same input_collection, do all these
transforms, filter on basis of HR and write
40
it in HR file. And these are two unix commands to view both files.
41
Run it.
42
Actually these are the results of 2 files. From here to here it would be accounts and starting from Lesly it would be HR.
43
and starting from Lesly it would be HR.
44
Umm if you would like to see the department
name also in the output, here in the map transform,
45
I will include department name also in the
key.
46
for HR it would be HR
47
So now a combination of department name and
employee name will act as a key.
48
.
49
Great.
50
Guys this branching is a simple one, in real
scenarios you might have to perform multiple
51
transforms on a single pcollection to achieve
the results. I hope you got it.
52
Ok, so what’s next.
53
I guess we have a perfect example to demonstrate
a flatten transform.
54
Flatten is a Beam transform for PCollections
that store the same data type.
55
Flatten merges multiple PCollections into
a single logical PCollection.
56
You can see flatten as a usual Union operation.
57
So in our case, suppose I want to merge both
these pcollections.
58
First of all check if they can be merged or
not.
59
Since both the pcollections have same number
of columns and same data type, yes they can
60
be merged.
61
In the code, let me create a new pcollection.
62
Now Flatten transform gets applied on a tuple
of PCollections.
63
For us we have to merge 2 pcollections.
64
So
output = (
65
(accounts_count,hr_count)
| beam.Flatten()
66
So as a input...
67
...
68
.
69
..
70
Ok it is smart enough and saying that your
71
result is in these 2 files, basically not
creating an extra file, just pointing to the
72
resulted files.
73
If I want a separate file for it, I have to
comment this and this.
74
Now the full results will be in both.txt file.
75
Yes, as expected it has merged both the pcollections.
76
If you want to check the whole file, you can
cat the output file.
77
That’s it for flatten.
78
See you guys in next lecture with a new Ptransform.


=== Write to BigQuery Tables ===


--- ParDo Transform ---

0
Let us discuss about the most important concept of Apache Beam, it is  ParDo transform.
1
ParDo is a Beam transform for generic parallel
processing.
2
The ParDo processing paradigm is similar to
the “Map” phase of a Map-reduce program.
3
So a  ParDo transform takes each element in the
input PCollection, performs some processing
4
function on that element, and emits zero,
one, or multiple elements to an output PCollection.
5
Now you may ask that the same thing we have
seen in map and FlatMap transforms.
6
You are Right.
7
Actually, Pardo is a generic form of the Map
and FlatMap phases.
8
It can be seen as a parent class for map and
FlatMap transform.
9
Both the map and FlatMap represents a particular
case of the pardo transform.
10
Now ParDo is useful for a variety of common
data processing operations, including:
11
Filtering a data set - You can use ParDo to
take each element in a PCollection and either
12
output that element to a new collection or
discard it.
13
Then Formatting or type-converting of  each element
in a data set - If you want to change the
14
type or format the elements of your input
PCollection, you can use ParDo to do conversion
15
on each element on the input pcollection.
16
Then is Extracting parts from each element - If you
have a PCollection of records with multiple
17
fields then using Pardo, you can extract individual
elements from it.
18
Perform computations on each element of Pcollection–
This is the basic use of it where we define
19
a processing function according to our requirements
and that function is applied on every element
20
of the Pcollection.
21
So guys, these were some basic use cases of pardo
but its usage is not limited to these much  only.
22
We can leverage Pardo for slicing and dicing
a pcollection in varied ways.
23
Now lets  see how exactly we apply a pardo
transform in our beam pipeline.
24
I will be showing you the same example of
attendance count.
25
See in this example we used map , and I  show you flatmap also, then we used
filter these transforms.
26
Now We will try to get the same results with Pardo transform
27
And when  you apply a ParDo transform, you’ll
need to provide user code in the form of a
28
DoFn object.
29
The DoFn object that you pass to ParDo contains
the processing logic that gets applied to
30
the elements in the input pcollection.
31
Now what is this DoFn.
32
It is actually a Beam class that defines a
distributed processing function.
33
This class contains all the logic to run the
user provided function parallelly on multiple
34
machines.
35
Infact, internally Map and flatmap also inherits the
DoFn class.
36
To implement ParDo in the code, If I remove
this Map and write here Pardo
37
I have created a new  class which is inheriting
38
the mandatory DoFn class.
39
DoFn class has a number of functions in it
out of which we have to override just 1 function
40
which is a process function.I have defined the process function
41
as arguments it takes the elements of input Pcollection on which Pardo is getting
42
applied.
43
And inside the process function, you can write
any logic according to your use case with
44
final output as return.
45
In my case, this pardo should split the elements on basis
of comma delimiter and return a list of 5
46
elements.
47
Since this time we are using a generic function
which can emit 0,1 or more outputs that is
48
why you have to explicitly return a single
element list using these square braces.
49
Class is defined, now pass the object of this
class here in pardo
50
Run it.
51
OK,_________ filtering is not defined.  I  am commenting out everything just writing the pardo.
52
So guys this is the default implementation of
Pardo.
53
Create a class inheriting DoFn class.
54
Inside tjhat class, override the process function
as per  requirements and finally call
55
the object of the class in Pardo.
56
You can also use lambda function in Pardo. I will show you the implementation of same splitting using lamda operation.
57
Now in this case, Beam internally creates a DoFn
object, to which they call as Lighweight DoFns
58
and use this function to process the elements.
59
Now like I told that Pardo is a generic form
of Map and FlatMap.
60
In here it has behaved like a Map, as for
1 input element it threw 1 output element.
61
So, what if wanted the Pardo to behave as
FlatMap.
62
If I remove these  braces
63
See now it is behaving as FlatMap.
64
This time I was not explicitly returning a
single output from Pardo.
65
This means that by default Pardo return multiple
outputs for a single input.
66
You have to explicitly restrict it according
to your use case.
67
Very well.
68
Now Pardo can also do filtering also.
69
So  I am replacing this  filter with Pardo Define the filtering logic.
70
So FilterAccountsEmployee class is inheriting
the mandatory DoFn class and while overriding
71
the process method it is returning only those
elements whose department is accounts.
72
And again  to return a single element return it
as a list.
73
I am calling this. Filter also worked properly.  Let me quickly replace this map also.
74
This map also worked. Good so far.
75
Why to leave combinePerKey, lets replace
this also.
76
It will be replaced in 2 steps.
77
So First a n ormal groupByKey.
78
And then a Pardo on that grouped data to do
the aggregation of all the ones.
79
Counting class’s process method is taking
name, accounts as key and list of ones as value
80
and returning the same output key with total
sum of the ones which is the required result.
81
Lets run it.
82
Great, correct results.
83
So guys like you saw, Pardo can be used almost
in any case.
84
You just have to inherit the DoFN class and
override the process method.
85
That’s it for the Pardo. We will be using this Pardo in most of the examples I am explaining next.


=== Additional Learnings ===


--- Advanced Combiner of Beam ---

0
Let us discuss about one more core Beam transform
i.e.
1
Combine.
2
Combine is a Beam transform for combining
elements or values in your data.
3
Combiner, as you most of you would know is
a mini reducer which does the reduce task
4
locally to a machine.
5
But here in Beam it is lot more than that.
6
Conventionally combiner works only for those
calculations which are both associative and
7
commutative in nature, for example sum.
8
But in Beam sometimes this condition is not
mandatory depending on the use case.
9
For few of the use cases beam combiner can
produce correct results which is only commutative
10
and not associative.
11
For example, Mean and division.
12
Conventional combiners can not calculate correct
results for a mean or division of numbers.
13
But beam’s combiner can produce correct
results for these calculations also.
14
Let me show the clear picture of it.
15
So suppose we have to calculate the average
of these numbers.
16
Ideally it should be sum of all numbers / total
count of numbers which comes to 10.5.
17
Now let us assume we have 3 mappers which
got different set of data from this list.
18
We know that combiner runs on each of the
mapper locally so on 1st machine it will calculate
19
the average of its 3 numbers, 2nd machine
will calculate its own average and 3rd machine  its
20
own.
21
Now the results of each machine is passed
over to the reducer which will take these
22
numbers and calculate the final average which
comes out to be 10.3 and that is a wrong answer.
23
So this way of combiner to calculate a non-associative
computation is wrong.
24
Beam uses a more sophisticated approach to
do these type of computations.
25
What beam will do is.
26
Beam won’t calculate the average on each
of the mapper rather it will calculate the
27
sum of numbers and total count of numbers in each mapper
and pass those values to the next phase.
28
Now this machine will accumulate all the (sum,
counts) from mappers calculate the total sum
29
and total count of it and then divide it to
get the final results.
30
In this way I am getting the correct results for average.
31
Basically, this whole combine phase is performed
by 4 functions.
32
Create accumulator, add input, merge accumulators
and extract output  method.
33
Create accumulator creates a new local accumulator
in each machine.
34
In our example, a local accumulator tracks
the running sum of values and the count of
35
values summed so far.
36
Basically, it keeps a record of running (sum,
counts value).
37
Add Input, adds an input element to an accumulator,
returning the new accumulator value.
38
In our example, for every new element, it
would update the sum and increment the count.
39
Merge Accumulators merges all the machines
accumulators into a single accumulator. this
40
is how data in multiple accumulators is combined
before the final calculation.
41
In our case merge accumulators will have all the
(sum, counts) pairs from all  the 3 mappers.
42
Also, it will add up all the sums and counts
respectively to give final sum and final count
43
in a tupple.
44
Last is Extract Output.
45
It performs the final computation on the values
which merge accumulator returns.
46
In our case, it will divide final sum to final
count to get the final res ult.
47
It is called once on the  merged accumulator results.
48
Let us now see how exactly a combiner is implemented
in a beam pipeline.
49
Ok so this is a basic skelton of beam pipeline
where my initial Pcollection is getting created from
50
in memory data generated by create transform
and writing it to a output file.
51
Now to use a combiner here beam has provided
it with the name of CombineGlobally.
52
So beam.CombineGlobally.  As arguments you can pass few built in functions
which are sum, min, max but for more complex
53
combine functions, you can define a subclass
of CombineFn.
54
Same like for ParDo we have a DoFn class,
for combiner we have CombineFn class.
55
So define a class here. Class AverageFn which should inherit
the CombineFn class .
56
This class has those 4 functions which needs
to be overridden.
57
Let me paste them.
58
Ok so create accumulator method is creating a local
accumulator and initializing the sum, count
59
tuple as 0, 0.
60
Then add_input method is taking each of
the numbers as input adding the number in
61
previous sum and incrementing the count to
1.
62
This would be happening parallelly to all
the mappers in the job.
63
In each mapper this function would be its
local sum and local count.
64
Then is merge accumulators.
65
It will take the sum, count tuples from all
the machines, create a list of it and do the
66
aggregation of all sums and counts separately.
67
This task is done by python’s zip method.
68
Those who don’t know about zip function.
69
Guys,The zip() function takes any iterator as input
and returns an iterator of tuples, where the
70
first item of passed iterator is paired altogether,
and then the second item of passed iterator
71
are paired altogether and so on.
72
In our case zip will take this iterable list
as input, convert it into a list of tuples
73
of 2 elements.
74
First element being a tuple of all the individual
sums and second element in the list is tuple containing
75
all the counts.
76
Then in this return statement I am doing the sum
of ind_sums and sum of ind_counts from this list,
77
which eventually will give us 84, 8 as output.
78
Now our final method is extract_output.
79
It will take 84,8 as input, divide them both
to get the final average, this if I have written
80
to avoid the first case initialization when
our count will be 0.
81
And dividing by 0 will throw an exception. So to avoid it, an if else condition.  Now After overriding all these methods, call the object of this class here.
82
..
83
Let us run it.
84
Voila! correct answer.  So this was one abstraction of combine.
85
Guys, Combine gives us 1 more variant of it
to use in Beam pipeline. We have already implemented
86
it in the first program.
87
It was combinePerKey.
88
It basically does the same task of the above
mentioned combiner in addition to a groupByKey
89
operat ion.
90
So It first groups the elements on a key, then
do the map level computation and then at last
91
after all the results are accumulated, 1 final
computation to give the expected output.  Thats it for the combiner. See you in the next lecture.


=== Bonus ===


--- Create Composite Transforms ---

0
So guys till now we have seen various built-in
transforms that Beam provides us.
1
In this lecture we will see how to use those
transforms to build our own composite transform.
2
Composite transform as the name suggests will
be a transform which internally have a series
3
of built-in transforms implemented in it.
4
Actually, transforms can have a nested structure,
wherein a  transform performs multiple other
5
transforms such as ParDo, Combine, GroupByKey
etc inside it.
6
To these type of transforms we call composite
transforms.
7
Using composite transforms in your pipeline
can make your code more modular and easier
8
to understand.
9
Let us see the use and implementation of it.
10
So in the same example of attendance_count
of HR and Accounts Department we had this
11
code where we used these many built-in ptransforms
in a series.
12
Now suppose our requirements change and we
have to see only those employees whose attendance
13
count is more than 30. Then  after this combinePerkey I had to implement one more filter
like this.Filter with filtering logic in this method
14
define the method here and apply the same transform here also in
HR.
15
O.K. Now let’s suppose for all those filtered
employees you have to provide them with some
16
comments also. So after _________, we need a Map operation too, define this Map here .
17
This is working. But did you see the problem here.
18
Whatever common transforms I  am applying, I have
to write it in both the pipelines.
19
So  these few lines are same and repeated,
these are only few but in real world use cases
20
it can be a significant number of lines so
why don’t we create a single unit of these
21
lines and use that single name here.
22
You know like a reusable function.
23
Idea is good and that is what composite transform
is all about.
24
In composite transform we do group multiple
transforms as a single unit.
25
So what I will do is I will create a class MyTran sform
and like every other class in Beam it should
26
inherit its corresponding base class.
27
For creating composite transform it is Beam.Ptransform.
28
Actually , this Ptransform it is the base class of every Ptransform
which we use.
29
So Ptransfrom has an expand method which needs
to be overridden.
30
This method takes a pcollection as input on
which a number of  transforms is going to
31
get applied.
32
So cut this piece from here
and paste it here. I will delete this.
33
so on the input pcollection do these transforms  and return the pcollection.
34
To use this transform in our pipeline, simply
call its object  and call it here also with its own  unique tag.
35
Cool, our composite
transform did work with  more
36
manageable code.
37
One more thing you can see in the result that
those Unicode characters are gone.
38
Actually I figured a way for that.
39
To remove the Unicode character, I encoded
it to Ascii using encode method.
40
And these quotes are tuple’s way of representing
strings.
41
If you want to remove these too,
42
Then do a join.
43
Actually join() method is a string method
and returns a  string of these  elements
44
in which the sequence they have been joined with the comma
separator. So see the codes and the unicode character is gone.  Thats it  for composite transforms  and see you in the next lecture.

--- CoGroupBy for Joins ---

0
Let us now discuss about CogroupBy key in
Beam.
1
CoGroupByKey performs a relational join of
two or more key/value PCollections that have
2
the same time.
3
Basically, it is the base Ptransform for joins.
4
In the Beam SDK for Python, CoGroupByKey accepts
a dictionary of key value PCollections as
5
input and output a single PCollection containing
one key/value tuple for each key in the input
6
PCollections.
7
Each key’s value is a dictionary that maps
each of its tag to an iterable of the values
8
in the corresponding PCollection to which
it is getting joined.
9
An Example will make things more clear.
10
So, this was our department file.
11
Now let’s say I have 1 more file which holds
the location information of the employee.
12
This file has 3 columns.
13
Employee_id, employee phone number and its
location and an employee can have  multiple phone
14
numbers. So multiple rows for it.
15
Now as you can see employee_id column is common
in both the files so it can be our joining
16
key.
17
Let us see how exactly we do it.
18
So first of all read both the files.
19
Dept_file will be dep_rows Pcollection.
20
And Location file will be in Location rows Pcollection.
21
Then as I said that Cogroupby accepts a dictionary
of key value Pcollections so that is why from
22
their corresponding string Pcollections we
have to convert them to Key/value typed Pcollections
23
with employee_id being the key and rest as
value.
24
For that, a Map operation.
25
What my mapping method is doing, it is taking
the full row as input, splitting it on the  basis
26
of comma and returning  the employee_id as key and rest everything
27
as value making it a Pcollection of key/value
pairs.
28
Now comes the Cogroupby.
29
Like I said, It is accepting a dictionary
of key value pairs key and the first pcollection key and the second
pcollection.
30
This is the cogroupBy transform  and after  that I am  writing it to file.
31
Simple.
32
Run it.
33
Again these unicode  characters.
34
It will be complex to remove them this time
as there is lot of nesting.
35
Anyway I will take the output in notepad
and remove manually.
36
Yeah it is more understandable now.
37
So this was the key and corresponding to it
a dictionary of values.
38
Second Key and corresponding dictionary of values
Guys I know you would find it as not a proper
39
SQL join as it is returning a list for each
key and not multiple rows for that.
40
While joining if you have multiple rows for
a key then you would get multiple rows in
41
the output.
42
Moreover, we have to convert the Pcollections
into key value pairs to specify the joining
43
key.
44
This is kinda lengthy procedure to do join.
45
Yes very True.
46
But u know CogroupBy is the parent class for
a join.
47
Actually Beam’ SDK for python till now has
not written a full-fledged join using CoGroupBy
48
to which you just have to pass the joining
key and  these underlying things happen
49
internally.
50
Also for performing left, right and  full outer
joins at this stage using a very  ______ coGroupBy you might have to take
51
this code ahead and implement it yourself.
52
So as of now we have to write few more lines
of code to make it a proper join.
53
But Don’t worry, Beam’s Python community
is evolving very fast and I believe, we will
54
get the full support for joins very soon and
I will update this lecture with all the joins
55
as soon as they are introduced.
56
Buy yeah, in Java’s SDK, a full-fledged
join implementation is there.
57
Same like other data building pipeline kits,
java sdk for beam provides you with a basic
58
join operation where you have to just pass
the joining key and the  Pcollections
59
to be joined as arguments. I hope in python also it get introduced soon.

--- How to access files from Google Drive ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Side Inputs ---

Hello students, in this lecture we will discuss
about 1 more important topic in Beam which
is Side inputs.
A side input as the name implies is an additional
piece of information that we can provide to
a DoFn object.
In addition to the main input PCollection,
you can inject additional inputs to a ParDo
or its child transforms like Map, FlatMap
in the form of side inputs.
Pardo will take side input as an extra input
which it can access each time it processes
an element in the input PCollection.
Now if you ask what type of data can be injected
as side inputs.
Guys, the side inputs data needs to be determined
at runtime.
Such values might be determined by the input
data, or it may be from a different branch
of your pipeline.
And obviously side inputs, comparatively are
very small in sizes than the actual input
data.
Let us see an example of it.
So in our running example of attendance count,
suppose I want to do the attendance count
of all employees of Accounts department but
excluding few of the employees.
Those few employee_ids whose attendance is
not be calculated are listed in a separate
file exclude_ids.
Also I would hypothetically add one more condition
to it that the rest of employees whose attendance
count I am doing should have their names length
between 3-10 characters.
You know, a mocked-up use case.
Now I will show you, how to build the pipeline
of this use case using side inputs.
This is the whole code of it and one thing
would be clear to you that we should use the
employee_ids to be excluded as side input.
Also we can use the upper and lower bound
of names character length i.e. 3 and 10 as
side inputs.
So what I did he re is, I have opened the exclude_ids.txt
file and for every line in it, append them
into a list.
So basically, this side_list variable is a list
holding our employee_ids to be excluded.
In the pipeline, read the input file.
And immediately after it, a ParDo transform
with side inputs.
Like I mentioned that side inputs can be injected
as an additional information inside ParDo
or its child transforms so here it is.
They are getting passed as extra arguments
to the DoFn’s process method.
I am passing 3 side inputs to ParDo.
First is the side_list,  2nd is the lower bound and 3rd is its upper bound.
Now inside the class's process method  definition,  I  will be using the side inputs with
my actual data according to my use case.
See this time, along with the self and elements
process is taking 3 more parameters which
are side inputs.
and according to our use case, we have to exclude the elements in side_list.
So first split the actual data.
Take out id and names from it.
Then return only those elements whose name
length is between upper and lower bound and
also if its corresponding id should not be present
in the side_list.
So in this way we are leveraging side inputs
in a Pardo transform.
The same thing can be done in any of the Pardo’s
child transforms like Map and FlatMap, you
can try it as well for this same use case.
Finishing of the pipeline., I am doing the
regular stuff, filtering Accounts dept data.
Then map, (id + name, 1) pairs, do the sum
and write it to an output file.
Done.
Yeah,  it is giving the expected results.
Thanks.

--- Additional Outputs in Pipeline ---

0
In previous lecture we discussed about the
side inputs to a pipeline.
1
In this lecture we will discuss about additional
outputs which a pipeline can generate.
2
So guys till now, we have seen a transform
giving only 1 main output PCollection but
3
you can also have your transform produce any
number of additional output PCollections,
4
along with the main one.
5
If we choose to have multiple outputs, then
our transform will return all of the output
6
PCollections including the main output bundled
together.
7
To emit elements to multiple output PCollections,
invoke the with_outputs() function on your
8
ParDo transform and specify the various tags
for the outputs.
9
Things will get more clear when you see the
implementation of it.
10
Ok, So this is the basic structure of a pipeline
where I am just reading our department file.
11
Now my requirement is like that I want all
the names, which are small, up to 4 characters
12
length.
13
Then names which are of more than 4 characters
length and also all the names that starts
14
with ‘A’.
15
This is some unrealistic example but my focus
is just to explain the concept and since you
16
are now very familiar with this data so I
don’t want you to get you confused in the
17
data stuff by introducing any new data and
that is why I created some hypothetical example
18
from our department data only.
19
Anyways, so I have to calculate these 3 things.
20
No doubt, you can calculate this use case
using branched pipelines but that code  will be
21
a lengthy one, if you want to try, you can try that
also.
22
But here I will explain this use case using
side inputs and additional outputs method.
23
Ok, so this is the 1 line code for it.
24
I am using a Pardo Transform which will perform
the functioning defined in this class (I will
25
define this class in a bit).
26
As side input, it takes the cut Off length
i.e. 4 and the character A.
27
Dot with_outputs function.
28
As arguments of with_outputs we have to provide
the tags of different outputs.
29
Short_names tag for less than 4 characters
name, Long_names tag for more than 4 characters
30
name.
31
These 2 tags are the additional outputs and for
main output we have to specify like this.
32
main = tag for it.
33
Now these tags will be used in the DoFn class
to assign them with their relevant data.
34
Let us define the class now.
35
The class ProcessWords is inheriting the mandatory
DoFn class and we are overriding the process
36
method.
37
Split the whole element on basis of comma
and assign name variable as the second element
38
of resultant list which is obviously the employee
name.
39
Now if our  name’s length is less than 4
characters then assign that name to Short_names
40
tag using beam. pvalue.tagged output method.
41
..
42
Else assign that name to Long_names tag using
same method.
43
Guys this is the way how we assign an element
to its appropriate tag using pvalue.TaggedOutput
44
method.
45
Now to get the main output, if the name starts
with A, then return it.
46
This time we don’t have to use the TaggedOutput
method as it is known that without it, this
47
output is going to be the main one and tagged it
to Names_A automatically.
48
If you would have noticed for tagged output
I returned the output in braces while for
49
main output it is a usual return.
50
The reason behind that is Our DoFn will return
plain values for the main output and objects
51
for TaggedOutput therefore we have to wrap
the taggedOutput Object while returning it.
52
Cool, so now we have a results pCollection
ready with us having all the tags and their
53
respective data.
54
Its turn to now segregate the data into 3
new pcollections based on the tags.
55
So my shortPcollection = result.its tag
56
i.e.
57
Short_names.
58
Long collection = results.long _names tag.
59
Start a collection= results.names a collection.
60
..
61
So basically, now we have 3 pcollections with
appropriate data in it.
62
Simply write it into 3 files  and we
are good to go.
63
Guys not only Pardo, Tagged outputs can be
even generated by its child Map and FlatMap
64
in the same way. So if you want, you can perform that also.
65
Ok, I will run this.
66
..
67
The first file is showing short names.
68
Then long names. And I guess we don't have any name that starts with A.
69
So an empty file would have generated. So guys, this was all about additional outputs. I will see you in the next lecture.

--- Introduction to Case Study ---

welcome guys to this lecture in which we
are going to discuss about a real-time
case study. The case studies that I am
going to explain in this course are not
hypothetical but they are a small copy
of what actually is running in the
production servers of many business
domains. Apache  Beam is becoming an
adaptive model for building complex data
pipelines and day by day more and more
industries are showing their interest in
implementing Beam in their projects due
to its unified and portable nature. In
this lecture, I am going to show you one
such project of banking domain where
banks try to identify their defaulter
customers. As you know banks majorly on
their profit from loan services
customers take very type of loans from
banks and repay it in monthly or
quarterly installments with some
interest but not all the customers. There
are few customers which are unable to
pay the loan installments on time or
might even miss some installments and
same is in the case of credit card
payments. People use the credit cards but
might make late payme nts or even miss
the payments . Actually for any bank in
the world this is the one major risk
they are dealing with and want to
mitigate it as much as possible and for
the same by tracking the pattern of
transactions and payments made by
customers they try to identify those
skippers priorly before they become full
defaulters and bank might suffer loss
because of them . Earlier also, banks were
doing these kind of jobs with
conventional systems, but with the onset
of big data platforms that are capable
of processing terabytes of data in short
time it is becoming easy for banks to
make their algorithms more complex in
nature.So we are going to implement one
such case study where from early data we
have to predict and identify credit card
payment skippers and the possible loan
defaulters of bank
Let me show you the data which Bank has
provided us.

--- Requirements and Data walk-through for Card skippers ---

So, we are given 2 data files.
1 for credit card customers and other one
for loan customers.
Cards file contain the historical 1 year credit
card payment clearance data.
It is some kind of balance sheet which a Bank
maintains for all the customers'
monthly dues and payment clearances whereas
loan file contains the information about the
customers' monthly installments, due dates,
due amount and actual clearances.
Let me give you the schema understanding of
these files.
First is this cards file.
Column 1 is customer id, column 2 is customer
first name, then customer last name,
next column is some relationship number of
customers for that credit card,  this is credit card type  issued to customer
like Visa, master and all, then column
6 is max spent limit of customer per month.
Column 7 is his spends of that month or you
can say total dues which he or she has to
clear.
Column 8 is the cash withdrawn by customer
in a month from ATM machines.
Please note that this cash withdrawn is already
included in the total dues, so in this transaction
38 amount is already included in this
total spent amount.
And this column is the amount which was
cleared by customer for that month.
Last column, you can assume as due date. Ok so in this transaction Mr. Miyako Burns
having Issue  credit card had monthly limit
of 500 dollars.
He has spent 490 dollars in that month, out
of which 38 was cash withdrawn from ATM and he
has cleared 101 dollars for these spends of
Jan month.
For sake of simplicity I am assuming that
the bill cycle is of 30 days only i.e. all
the customers have to clear the due amount
on last date of the particular month.
Like 30 or 31.
Now Since this is a yearly data so for every customer
there would be exactly 12 rows.
If a customer has not cleared any dues for
a month then his cleared amount would be 0
for that particular month.
Basically, whether a customer has cleared
any dues or not, there would be 12 rows in
this file for each customer.
Data understanding is good.
Now from this file Bank wants  to identify
the usual skippers or you can say non trusted
customers.
I guess from our reports they would probably
keep a close eye on those customers as, in
future they may turn into defaulters.
And how exactly to identify them, they have
given certain parameters on which we have
to evaluate each customer and assign some
default points to them.
Those conditions are-
For each short pay ment assign 1 point to the
customer where a payment is short when a customer
fails to clear atleast 70 % of its monthly
spends.
So suppose a customer has spent a total of
100 dollars in jan month and he cleared only
60 dollars for that month then we will assign
1 point to him for Jan month.
Secondly, assign 1 point to the customer transaction,
where he has spent 100% of his limit and not
cleared the full 100% dues.
So if a person whose max limit is 100 dollars
has spent 100 dollars but cleared only 90
dollars in that month then assign 1 point
to it for that.
And last, if the customer is meeting both
the above conditions i.e. for some month he/she
has spent 100% of his max limit but cleared
less than 70% then assign 1 additional point
for that transaction.
At the end sum up all the points for a customer
and output it in a file.
So it means for each customer row in the input file,  we have to assign certain points to him.
Lets start building the pipeline for this.
I will explain the loan defaulters conditions
later otherwise you will get confused.

--- Identifying Credit card payment skippers ---

Alright.
So this is the pipeline I created for our
use case.
It is simple only not any complexity in it.
And guys for better visualization of the code,
I have used sublime editor here.
I will explain the code here in editor  and after it
will copy the whole code and run it in colab
only.
So in the pipeline In the code, I am reading the input file and
since the file was containing a schema header
so skipped the top 1 line while reading using
skip_header_lines argument.
Immediately after reading, the row will be
processed by a Map transform.
Calculate_points method is defined above. This is the whole method.
What this method is doing.
It is splitting the incoming row on basis
of comma resulting in a list of 10 fields.
I have given the names to each field in the
list for better understanding.
If you want, you can go with the index references
also.
So splitting the incoming row and then assign
the values to few variables while typecasting
them to integers since we need to perform
mathematical operations on them.
My grouping key will be a composite one of
3 fields - customer id + customer first name
+ last name. and initialize the defaulter_points
counter with 0.
For your help I have written the processed
values of each step which they will hold for
first record of file in the comments.
you can have a look at the comments side by
side.
Ok so once the variables are set I will write
the conditions according to our requirements.
i.e.
If payment is  is less than 70%
then increase the defaulter_points counter
by 1.
and if the spent amount is equal to 100% of
max limit and also it is not cleared fully,
increment the counter by 1.
3rd and final condition was that if both the
above conditions are meeting then 1 additional
point.
After all these conditions, return the key and the defaulter_points
counter.
So basically, for every row in the input file
my map transform is returning a key value
pair where key is customer and value is default
points accumulated for that month.
Cool
Now you would have guessed that after Map,
we should do the grouping of keys and sum
the points and that’s exactly what I am
doing in the pipeline.
A Combineperkey transform.
Combineperkey would give us customer id and
its defaulter_points for the whole year.
See, this is  for my __________ customer id and the defaulter points for the whole year. OK Now since I want the defaulter customers
only in my output and not those customers
having 0 default points hence a filter transform,
which will filter all those elements having
defaulter_points as 0.
I think this is what we wanted, but again
to remove those Unicode characters in the
output a Map transform  for formatting This Map transform merely is converting the key value pair into
strings, nothing much.
And finally write the output to a file.
All set.
We can run this  pipeline.
Anddddd Here is the output.
Customers with default points.
is having default points.
having points.
I know this looks simple, but you can try
putting more conditions in it and do self
practice.
Anyways I am going to put the loan defaulters
in this pipeline which is a little tricky
one.

--- Requirements and Data walk-through for Loan Defaulters ---

So guys bank has also given us this loan file
containing monthly loan transactions of some
year.
Column 1 is customer id, first name, last
name, His occupation, Loan _id, then what
type of loan he has taken like Home loan,
Medical loan, personal loan or any other.
Next column is the due date of installment
for a particular month.
Customer had to pay his installment before
this due date.
Then, How much is the due installment amount
and last is the actual payment date.
..
And here are few things to keep in mind.
According to bank policy it does not accept
any amou nt less than the due amount or any
late payments for Personal loan category.
I repeat, for Personal loan, Bank does not
accept any amount less than the due amount
or any late payments.
So If a customer is paying his Personal loan
installment it is expected that he/she is
paying the full amount and that too on time.
With this it also becomes clear that there
may or may not be 12 rows for a customer.
Because if a customer has not paid his installment
before due date then that month’s entry
will not be present in the file.
But for Medical loan Bank does accept late
payments but again it should be the full installment
and not less than due amount .
Also it is assumed that there would be  an entry for
every month for medical loan category.
Good.
Now what results we want.
From this file, bank wants to know its defaulters
of Medical and Personal loan.
And who are these defaulters.
For medical loan category a customer is defaulter,
if he/she has made a total of 3 or more late
payments in a year.
For personal loan category a customer is defaulter
if he/she has missed total 4 or more installments
or missed 2 consecutive installments. I repeat  total of 4 or more missed installments or missed 2 consecutive installments.
Alright, lets start  the coding for
this.

--- Identifying Loan Defaulters - Part 1 ---

I will include the pipeline here only.
First of all for Medical loan.
This is the pipeline.
I will also paste the relevant methods.
Calculate late payment and format output,
2 methods.
Also, I would need a date library.
Now coming to the pipeline.
Read the file, split it on basis of comma and then  Filter
all the elements of Medical Loan. After  it the main thing,
a Map transform to check our conditions.
It is more or less same like that loan defaulter
Map.
Calculate late payment - it is here. In the map definition,First change the incoming due_date and payment_date
to their corresponding date formats using
python datetime.strip time methods since as of now these
dates are in string format, we need to
first convert  these dates into  date format to apply any
date  operations.
And then according to our requirements, if
payment_date is less than or equal to due_date
means the payment is made on time or early
so append 0 to the incoming list or if payment
is more than the due_date it means this is
the case of late payment then append 1 to
the list.
So basically, Map transform is taking the
row and embedding either 0 or 1 in it.
0 for ontime or early payment and 1 for late
payment.
After this, one more Map transform to extract
key value pairs out of the record.
Key will be a composite - customerid + firstname
+ lastname and value will be the last element
of file i.e.
The field 0 or 1 we embedded.
Actually we could have made the key value
pairs in the previous Map itself, I just simply
chose to do it in a separate Map.
Anyways then CombinePerkey with sum.
In this way what we will get is.
We will get the customer and his total number
of late payment months.
But in order to be defaulter, there should
be atleast 3 payment months, hence a
filter condition to filter out those records
having value greater than equal to 3.
Format the results and we are good.
I am not writing it in a file since our file
should contain the personal loan defaulters
also which is yet to be calculated. OK, medical loan defaulters are calculated
now for loan defaulters, this is the pipeline.
Now these methods should be defined , calculate month and calculate personal loan defaulter.
Calculate the month and calculate personal loan defaulter. Coming to the
pipeline.
Read the loan.txt file, split it on basis of comma and filter out all the elements of
the personal loan.
And then a Map transform to extract the month
from dates because for personal loan defaulters
we need to figure out the months for which
the installments were made.
From  months information, we can identify the number of months
the installments were missed.
So in this calculate month method, this is the input which
it would be getting   and since the payment_date field is
a string, convert it to date format to apply
any  ate operations.
..
So basically after this, payment_date variable
will be holding the the customer’s payment
date but this time in proper date’s format
on which we can apply any date related operations.
I am concerned about the month so extract
the month from date and append it in my existing
list.
So calculate_month method is basically taking
the input list and returning it with 1 more
field month, appended in it.  This is the output this method will give.
Then for grouping, make key value pairs with
key as customerid, first and last name and value as month.
Grouping it will give us name and list of
months customer has paid the installments.
After grouping a Map transform for logical
processing.
This method is defined here.
In this  method there are 2 conditions to check.
One, if total of 4 or more than 4 installments
are missed OR customer has missed 2 consecutive
monthly installments.
Right. In the method,
I am defining 2 variables here, max_allowed_missed_months
is 4 and max_allowed_consecutive_missing is
2
So my input to this method is a key value
pair with key as ids
and value as  list of months he has paid installments.
I am sorting the list so as to get the ascending
order of months.
Then figure out the length of the list.
Number of months customer missed the payments
will be equal to 12 – the total number of payments
it made.
And then according to our conditions if missed_payments
is greater than max_allowed_missed_months
then return the key and the missed_payments
number as value
This was the first check.
We have another check also to see if there
are any 2 consecutive misses.
And  for that this much of code.
Mine is this but you can build your own logic
to find out the 2 consecutive misses.
It might be a little tricky to explain this
but I will try.
I would recommend you to side by side keep
checking the comments  for better understanding.
So Initializing the consecutive_missed_months
of a customer to 0.
Then I am creating a temp variable which is
equal to, (first element of list – 1).
If temp is greater than consecutive_missed_months
then consecutive_missed_months is equal to
temp.
This basically I am doing to check the initial misses.
Let say for a customer, the first payment
he made is 5th month then his consecutive
misses should be 4 . so that’s why  see
5 – 1  it would be
= 4 consecutive misses.
And the same is recorded  in consecutive_missed_months
variable.
But for Mr. Ronald he has not missed any payments
in the year start so as of now consecutive_missed_months
is 0.
This was the left boundary of list.
Now we have to check the right boundary also
in the same way to check if the customer has
missed last payments, like he might have paid
only till 8th month and missed the last 4
payments for the year.
For that subtract the second last element
of list from 12 and if it is greater than
consecutive_missed_months then those many
months are updated new consecutive_missed_months
. Mr. Ronald has not missed last months either
so variable consecutive_missed_months as of
now remains 0.
Boundaries are checked, now comes the check
for whatever months customer had made payments.
To do so, a for loop.
For every element in the  list, subtract it
from its immediate next element.
And if the result is greater than consecutive_missed_months
then assign consecutive_missed_months that
result.
This I am doing because I want to have the
max_consecutive missed months for a customer.
Now after the 3 conditions whatever max_consecutive
missed months we got, compare it with the
Max_allowed_missed months.
If the number is greater than allowed months
then return the customer details as key and
value as the months he missed.
For Ronald it would be 3 since he missed 2nd,
3rd and 4th month.
If none of the conditions is satisfying, then
return 0 as missed months.
Clear.
so it means  this Map method is going to return
us a key value pair for each and every customer
in the file even if they have missed 0 months
but we don’t want non defaulters in our
output file. So a filter condition afterwards.
Filter all the elements where value is >0.
At last a map transform in the end to
format the output.
So the picture till now is that we have 2
pcollections ready with us.
One is containing the medical loan defaulters
and the other one containing personal loan
defaulters.
We want the output of both in a single file.
So we need to perform a flatten transform
on both to do the union.
See, the flatten transform is getting applied
on both the pcollections and outputting the
results in loan_defaulters file.
I guess we are good to go.
I will paste the pipeline here only.

--- Identifying Loan Defaulters - Part 2 ---

..
Yeah, so these are the loan defaulters. This file includes both medical and personal loan defaulters.  Good till date. So guys we have successfully delivered 2 files credit card skippers and loan defaulters to bank.
Our last and final thing pending is to provide
the bank those customers which are both credit
card skippers and loan defaulters.
For that we have to join both these pcollections
using cogroupby.
So this much.
Take a dictionary of pcollections, apply cogroupby
and write it to output file.
But yes, like I mentioned in the cogroupby
lecture that Cogroupby transform accepts a
dictionary of only key valued Pcollections
so it means our input pcollections should
be in key value format but
as of now they are in string format.
See this credit card  pcollection as of now
is in strings. This is the output which it is throwing.
And also the  final_loan_defaulter would  be
in strings.
So we have to convert both these
Pcollections into key value type pcollections.
It is simple only.
I would define a method . I am defining a return_tuple method …which
accepts a string element, split in on basis
of comma and return first element as key and
rest everything as value.
We will call this method in both the Pcollections.
So for this if I apply here . And I need to comment this. Now the output of card defaulter  will be a key value pcollection.
Same goes here.
..
Sorted.
We can run it.
..
I will cat the output for this file also.
Run it.
Great.
Worked fine.
These are the customers which are both credit
card and loan defaulters.
Again, since joins are not fully developed in
Beam so this is not the proper output of an inner
join, rather the output has every key from
both the files with the values they are having
for those keys, that is why you might be seeing
some empty values in the list.
We have to settle with that as of now.  Somewhere in the output you can see both  loan defaulter and card defaulter values are filled.
So guys, bank got 3 files from us.
Credit card payment skippers, loan defaulters
and both defaulters.
Now using our results they would certainly
be watching very closely on those customers
and take appropriate steps on time before
they have to incur  any losses due to them.

--- Data encoding in Beam ---

Welcome guys to this Section.
This section deals in the data encoding mechanisms
of beam.
So you all must be knowing that we have 2
modes of data, 1 is object-oriented which
users can understand and the other is serialized
data in the form of bytes which machines can
understand.
In every ecosystem, the object data is serialized
into byte strings while transmitting it over
the network.
And in the target machine, they are again
deserialized to object form.
In Beam also, while runners execute your pipeline,
they often need to materialize the intermediate
data of your PCollections, which requires
converting elements to and from byte strings.
In fact, Beam SDKs require this, to and from
byte conversion for every PCollection in your
pipeline.
So Who does this conversion?
The answer is, The Beam SDKs use objects called
Coders to describe how the elements of a given
PCollection may be encoded and decoded.
In the Beam SDK for Python, the class Coder
provides the methods required for encoding
and decoding data.
Actually, it is the base class for any coder,
decoder in Beam.
All the classes that are going to be used
as a coder or decoder for a particular data
type must have to inherit the coder class
and override its methods and please understand
that coders are specific to data types.
Means, for a Pcollection of String elements
there would be a certain coder and for a Pcollection
of Integers would be some other coder.
Python SDK provides a number of built-in Coders
that work with a variety of standard Python
types, such as the basic primitive types,
then Tuples, Iterables, Strings and many more.
I am attaching the github link in the resources
tab, if you want to check out all the default
available Coder subclasses in the apache beam’s
coders package.
Also it is to mention that coders do
not necessarily have a 1:1 relationship with
data types. I repeat, coders do not necessarily have a 1:1 relationship with data types.
Means it is not mandatory that 1 type can
be encoded by only 1 coder.
There can be multiple coders for 1 data type.
For example, the Integer type can have multiple
valid coders.
In fact, even input and output data can use
different Integer coders.
So for a transform which has Integer input
and integer output data, then it may use BigEndianIntegerCoder
for input and VarIntCoder for output.
This is a valid scenario.
Alright, now the question is how to specify
a coder in our pipeline.
Guys In most of the cases, the Beam SDK is
able to automatically specify the Coder for
a PCollection based on its element type or
the transform that produces it, however, in
some cases, the user needs to specify a Coder
explicitly, or even develop a Coder for their
custom data type.
Now before we discuss, how to create our own coder,
let me explain how exactly a default coder
is automatically specified to a Pcollection.
Actually, all the Beam SDKs have a CoderRegistry
class that maps the data types to their default
coder.
Each Pipeline internally has a CoderRegistry
object, which maps data types to their default
coder.
Pipeline uses this table to materialize the
Pcollections.
Below is the list of few of the data types
and their mapped encoders in CoderRegistry.
For integers the default coder is VarIntCoder.
For float it is FloatCoder and so on.
Beam will automatically set these default
coders for their corresponding mapped data
types in this list and if you want to look
up the default coder for a given type, then
you can use the CoderRegistry.get_coder method.
Let me show you.
So here first of all, import coders,
then coders.registry.get_coder(int).
It is showing varIntcoder, means by default
in the coder_regirstry, varIntcoder is mapped
for integers.
If you want to look for strings, ,,,it is
Bytes coder.
Same like this you can check for any data
type.
And now, If you want to change this default
Coder for a data type for a particular pipeline,
you have to modify the pipeline’s CoderRegistry
by using register_coder method. So coder.Registry - this is the method. Register.
Inside the parenthesis, pass the
data type of which you want to set the coder
and then the coder name. _________
coders.registry.register_coder(int, coders.FloatCoder)
So if I want to change the coder for a Pipeline,
then somewhere in the pi peline I would write this
line. Let me confirm it.
Yes register_coder has set the FloatCoder
for integers in Coder registry of this pipeline.
Okay, so we discussed all about the coders
and as I mentioned that you can also create
your own encoder. Let us see what exactly to
do in that case.
Even though as a developer there won’t be
much need to develop any coder as it is required
in few complex scenarios only, but still let
us have a brief look at it.

--- Coder class in Beam ---

So first and foremost thing in order to create
custom coder is that you need to inherit
the base coder class or its subclass and override
these important few methods.
Encode method.
It takes input values and encodes them into
byte strings.
Opposite to it is decode which Decodes the
encoded byte string into its corresponding
object.
3rd is is_deterministic method- It is a Boolean
method that decides whether this coder is
guaranteed to encode values deterministically,
means whether it is a deterministic coder
or not.
Now what is a deterministic and a nondeterministic
coder?
I will explain what a nondeterministic encoder
is and apparently you will understand deterministic
coder.
So guys, as we know that in distributed environment,
we have number of machines and the same operation
is getting executed on different datasets
at multiple places.
Now if we use a nondeterministic coder then by
the way it serializes data, it is possible
that it might serialize the Pcollection’s
elements differently on different machines,
which for some transforms is totally OK, not
an issue but for some operations like GroupBy,
in order to produce consistent results a nondeterministic
coder is not appreciated because gorupBy uses
serialized representation of elements to compare
keys and having different serializations on
different machines may result in incorrect
behavior.
So in this case, you would need a deterministic
coder which ensures that the elements are
always encoded and decoded with the same algorithm
on all machines and for your information , the default coder
which Beam uses is Pickle coder which is a
nondeterministic one.
Moving next to methods, we have as_deterministic_coder.
This method basically returns the coder itself.
Its value is dependent on is_ deterministic
method.
If is_deterministic returns True then this
method will return a deterministic version
of self, if possible.
If not, then you can raise an error message.
Last is estimate size.
This method as the name implies estimates
the encoded size of the input value, in bytes.
This is not a mandatory one since it is related
to performance only.
Actually, guys, while the pipeline is running, our
runner estimates the encoded size of an under
processing PCollection step by step by considering
the estimated size of a random sample of elements
in that PCollection.
But If a coder can provide a fast estimate
of the encoded size of a value, for example,
in cases where the encoding has a fixed size,
then we can provide that estimate here to
improve the performance.
As arguments, it takes the input value whose
encoded size is to be estimated.
And returns the estimated encoded size of
that value.
Cool, so this is how you define your own coder
by overriding these methods of Coder class.
Even though Coder class has some other methods
also which you can ov erride but you know these
are some of the important ones.
Okay so now rather than creating a complex
use case and defining a coder for it let me
just show you the built-in coder which we
have for strings, it is StrUtf8Coder.
See this is the code for it.
It looks small but internally it is defining
a lot many things.
So StrUtf8Coder class is inheriting the coder
class and ove rriding its methods.
Encode method is encoding the incoming value
using utf-8 format mechanism.
If you want to build your own encoder you
might have to define your own format but again
not always, you can use this utf8 mechanism
only, but  implemented in your own manner.
Anyway, coming back to  this class, after encode, we have decode, decode method  would take the byte strings
and decode using utf-8 format mechanism.
Then return tru e to make it a deterministic coder.
then to_type_hint which is returning unicode.  This method specifies that
this coder can be used for Pcollection having
elements as unicoded strings.
We will learn more about type strings
So guys this was all about data encoding in
Beam.
Fact is that there are not many use cases
in which you have to create your own coder
but its also not like that there is none.
You might have to create a coder if you are
dealing with custom data types, the example
of which you will see in the next lecture
along with explaining type  hints.
So see you in next lecture.

--- What is Type Safety and How Beam ensures it ---

Let us now discuss about How Beam’s SDK
for Python ensures Type Safety.
If any of you don’t know about Type safety.
Here is brief explanation for you.
So guys, as the name is implying Type safety
is the prevention of typed errors in a programming
language, where a type error is something
when someone attempts to perform an operation
on a value that doesn’t support that operation.
In simple words, type safety makes sure that
an operation O which is meant to be performed
on a data type A cannot be performed on data
type B which does not support operation O.
Any programming language which is capable
to handle Type errors is a Type Safe programming
language.
However, this type safety can be ensured at
compile time or at run time.
Few languages ensure it on compile time itself
and few ensures at runtime.
Relative to us, Python is a dynamically-typed
language i.e. it ensures type safety in runtime
with no static type checking.
Now because of this way of Python’s type
checking developer’s productivity can easily
become bottle-neck by time spent in investigating
type-related errors.
Let me make it make it more clear to you by
this example.
Suppose this is a small pipeline where the
create transform generates a data of string
type.
Now on this, I am applying a filter transform
to filter out all the elements which are even.
If you run this pipeline it is definitely
going to give us error as filter transform
would expect a dataset of integers as input.
Now since Python is a dynamic type checker
so it is going to raise this exception at
run time.
It means that if there are 10 transforms ahead
of this filter, we are going to get the exception
after quite a time of pipeline run.
Moreover, a person who is debugging would
unnecessarily waste its time in finding this
error which could have been easily identified
and handled at compile time itself.
So for this kind of situations, to enable
the static type checking at compile time,
Beam recommends us to use type hints during
pipeline construction.
Even though Beam’s Python SDK includes some
automatic type checking for some PTransforms,
such as Create and simple ParDo but it does
not guarantees 100% in all the cases.
So its better that we use typehints while
creating our pipeline.
You can declare type hints on callables, DoFns,
or entire PTransforms.
There are two ways to declare type hints,
inline typehints and for the second one there
is no official name to it so for the sake
of ease I would call it as Outline typehints.
Inline type hints you provide during pipeline
construction and Outline typehints we provide
it as properties of the DoFn or PTransform,
using decorators.
To specify typehints, we use the methods with_input_types
and with_output_types
It will be more clear in the example. So in the same filtering example
if I write . with_input_types(int).
It means this filter Transform needs an integer
input.
So this time you’ll be able to catch the
error during pipeline compilation itself.
See it is saying…a type check error. This had occured at compile time.
Inline typehints is fine for th is case but
if you need them for a code that is going
to be reused, then declare them as decorators.
Like, usually our DoFn classes get reused
quite oftenly so rather than providing an
inline typehint everywhere our DOfn is called,
it makes more sense to declare the type hint
as a property of the DoFn itself.
And To specify type hints as properties of
a DoFn or PTransform, use the decorators @with_input_types()
and @with_output_types().
Let me show you how exactly we provide outline
typehints.
So in this code I am performing the same thing
using a Pardo transform.
Pardo is calling the object of this DoFn class. Here is the class and see
here only above the class declaration,
I am specifying the typehint as a property
of the class using a decorator.
Now wherever in the pipeline this DoFn class
will be called it automatically infers the
input typehint of integer.
Great. We got the exception at compile  time.
Okay, so we saw the typehints we are providing
in the with_input and with_output methods
as arguments.
Now again based on the arguments we provide,
typehints can be categorized into 3 types.
Simple type hints, parameterized type hints
and special type hints.
Simple type hints include the primitive types
like int, string and even user defined classes.
You pass these hints in the arguments of those
2 methods.
This is what we just did.
Second category is Parameterized type hints
which are those that needs 1 more level of
nesting, basically for container like Python
objects.
These includes a list and tuple.
In these types we further have to provide
1 more level of type hint for the elements
inside the container objects.
For example, here we have a List of Tuples.
List[Tuple[int, int, str]].
In this type hint, Tuple is the container
object and inside it, we are also specifying
the typehint for the elements it contains.
Then moving next, we have Special type hints . Special type hints are for those which
don’t correspond to a class, rather they
are for those special types which got introduced
in Python’s library PEP 484.
Like Any, Union and Optional.
Alright, Good till this.
Now what.
Yeah,, as I mentioned in the p revious lecture
that each Pcollection has a specific coder
mapped to it depending on the type of elements
it contains.
In order to provide the correct and efficient
coder to a Pcollection Typehints comes very
handy.
Providing a type hint helps in deciding the
Coder for the elements of a PCollection.
Like in this example,  if I also specify
the output type hint for the DoFn class.
Now Beam knows it priorily that this Pcollection’s
output elements would be of int type so it
will automatically infer the default Coder
for the output PCollection.
See, Even if you don’t provide the output
typehint here, Beam would have inferred its
coder by its own by seeing the nature of its
input and the Ptransform.
But in cases where we are dealing with custom
datatype, the need of typehints becomes almost
mandatory.
Let me show you an example of it.

--- Using Type Hints ---

In this pipeline I am performing the groupBy
operation on a custom datatype.
See Read transform is reading a file then
Map transform is using this method to parse
the file which basically is splitting the
file on basis of comma and returning a key
value pair with key being of custom data type
i.e. objects of Employee class, and then after
Map, I am grouping it by that custom key field.
Now In this case If you don’t define a Coder,
the default coder that Beam will use is PickleCoder,
which is nondeterministic so it is possible
that you may get a runtime error for this
pipeline, because as I mentioned in the previous
video also, GroupByKey uses serialized representation
to compare keys and using a nondeterministic
Picklecoder might result in serializing elements
differently on different machine.
So basically what I want to say is, that you
might have to define your own coder for this
use case which I already did here.
And since you are using your own coder, by
using inline type hints you are helping Beam
to infer which Coders to use for Employee
class type, by taking reference from coders_registry.
So specifying Type hints, you are making sure
that Beam will use EmployeeCoder for encoding
the resultant Pcollection’s elements.
So guys  I hope yo u understand and that’s all for Typehints.
I would recommend you to make it a practice
providing type hints in your pipeline.
Thanks

--- Introduction to Streaming ---

Welcome guys, to this section of course from
where we start to learn about streaming-data
pipelines in beam.
So in the previous sections we have got a
fair idea and hands on experience on how to
create and run batch pipelines using beam.
We have discussed about a good number of transforms
that are introduced in Beam so far.
That being done, now its time to start discussing
about building streaming data pipelines using
beam.
Streaming data as you all would know is the
real-time data which is continuously getting
generated from a number of resources and instantly getting transformed
at  a steady, high speed rate.
In this fast moving world, with growing demands
for faster analytics, these days all the businesses
are hungry to ingest and process the data
as soon as it is generated.
This helps them in making real-time business
decisions eventually leading to business growth.
Actually, streaming data has become a part
of our everyday lives whether you realize
it or not.
Data is getting gathered from your mobile
apps, from your PC’s browser while you search
the internet, GPS, sensors, almost from wherever
possible.
Try to search for any product on Amazon and
you will see its advertisements and recommendations
in all the next immediate websites you visit.
This all happens because data is getting flown
in real-time from your browser to Amazon and
from amazon to all their promotional websites.
Okayy enough of the ice breaking.
Lets talk some technical stuffs now.
So guys, this is already clear to you that
Beam is a unified processing model which uses
the same API for Batch and stream processing.
No doubt in that.
So it means that my beam pipeline for streaming
data would more or less look like same as
batched pipeline only but with few changes, like
this time we won’t be reading data from
a file rather we would be getting streaming
data from any application like Kafka or Google
cloud Pub/Sub.
With streaming data, exclusive concepts of
Windowing, watermarks and triggers will also
come into picture, we will cover that as well.
Now the most important thing which comes up
is our data source.
Who will be providing us the streaming data?
Guys, streaming data source for a Beam pipeline
can be any service like Kafka, Kinesis, a
socket or Google cloud PubSub.
And as I mentioned in the I/O transforms lecture
that as of now Beam’s SDK for Python only
supports Google Cloud Pub/Sub as streaming
source so throughout this course we will be
using Google Cloud Pub/Sub to get the streaming
data.
With that being said and before I go all into
practicals, I want that, you should have a
clear idea of how a real-time messaging service
such as Google Cloud Pub/Sub works and what
is the architecture underlying it.
Mostly any messaging service in the Big data
ecosystem works on Publisher and subscriber
architecture which is explained in the next
lecture.

--- PubSub Streaming Architecture ---

Let’s start discussing about the Google
Cloud Pub/Sub or you can say a generic publisher
subscriber architecture.
Google Cloud Pub/Sub is a fully managed real-time
messaging service which allows you to send
and receive messages efficiently between the
applications and services, where messages
are real time streaming data from sensors,
your mobile apps, IOT devices, current logs
from a system, anything.
It is based on Publisher and subscriber architecture
where publisher is responsible for generating
the messages and subscriber is the consumer
of those messages.
Basically, Google PubSub is so called the
Kafka of Google’s Cloud platform.
Now before talking more about Google cloud
PubSub and its features, let me first explain
the Publisher Subscriber architecture.
So in the architecture we basically have 4-5
major components.
Publisher, Topic, Message, Subscription and
Subscriber.
Publisher is an application that creates and
sends messages to topics.
It receives the real-time client data and
send it ahead to Topic in form of messages.
Where Topics are like named channels to which
messages are sent by publishers.
Each topic is kind of a category of published
messages.
In-fact the publisher is the one who creates
these topics and publish relevant messages
in it.
So a Topic will receive the message from publisher
and in order to ensure its delivery, the message
is stored in a persistent storage as messaging
queues from where it can be passed to the
subscriber based upon subscriber’s interest
or more precisely you can say based upon subscriber’s
subscription.
And please note that there can be multiple
publishers publishing messages to a single  Topic.
Now what is a message.
A message is a combination of data and optional
attributes that a publisher sends to a topic
and which is eventually delivered to subscribers.
Attributes are optional, they may or may not
be included in the message.
Attributes are basically key-value pair which
describes some additional information about
the message.
Then is subscriber.
Subscriber in layman terms, you can say is
the consumer of the topic.
A subscriber does not receive the messages
directly from the publisher rather it creates
a subscription to a particular topic to receive
the messages from publisher.
You can say by creating a subscription a subscriber
is subscribing to a category of messages which
are of its interest.
Last is subscription.
Subscription is a named resource which represents
the stream of messages from a single specific
topic to be delivered to the subscriber.
Like I just mentioned, a subscriber has to
take subscription of a topic in order to receive
messages of its interest.
After a subscriber has created subscription
for a Topic, all the messages in that topic
are delivered to the subscriber instantly as
they are published in it.
To make you more understanding of it let me
show you the lifecycle of a message in this
architecture.
So at first, a publisher application creates
a topic in the Cloud Pub/Sub service and sends
messages to that topic.
A message contains some data and optional
attributes that describes it.
Messages are then persisted in a storage queue.
The PubSub service ensures that the message
is persisted in the storage until and unless
it gets acknowledgment from any subscriber
that it has been consumed, or the set amount
of time has passed.
Max retention period of a message in google
cloud Pubsub is 7 days which is quite a huge
time in streaming environment.
Then the  messages are forwarded from a topic to
all of its subscriptions.
For your information  a topic can be engaged with multiple
subscriptions.
The subscriber receives messages as per its
subscription and acknowledges the receipt
of it to subscription.
As soon as a message is acknowledged by the
subscriber, it is removed from the subscription's
message queue.
So this was the whole lifecycle of a message
in the Pub/Sub architecture.
The interesting thing about this architecture
is that the publisher and subscriber are unaware
of each other.
The publisher is sending messages to subscribers,
without knowing if there are any subscribers
present to receive it.
And at the other end, the subscriber is receiving
messages, without having explicit knowledge
of the publishers out there.
If there are no subscribers around to receive
the topic message, the message is dropped.
So technically saying, in this architecture
the senders of the messages i.e.
Publishers are decoupled from the receivers
of  it
making  both of them work independently
and this is 1 very strong feature of it due
to which it is able to provide a good deal
of reliability and apparently is getting enormous
acceptance in many real time messaging frameworks.
Now If I talk about the advantages of this
architecture including the advantages of Google
PubSub.
Publisher subscriber architecture ensures
at least once delivery.
As the message is stored in persistent storage
and only dropped once a subscriber acknowledges
it so it ensures that message would be delivered
at least once.
By this, eventually, it is also ensuring Exactly
once processing of a message.
And since the publisher and subscriber are
decoupled and work independently so there
are less point of failures.
Point of failures are less, as the message
is stored in persistent storage so even if
a subscriber or subscription fails, messages
are not lost.
We still have the message with us ready to
be delivered once the subscriber comes up.
PubSub systems are horizontally scalable to
a great extent, the reason being the same,
decoupling of Publisher and subscriber.
If you want to add any publisher, you can
add as many publishers as you want, without
having the knowledge of its consumers and
similarly you can add as many subscribers
you want without having the knowledge of its
publisher.
All you have to do is create a subscription
of the new subscriber for a topic and start
getting the messages.
Now particular to Google Cloud PubSub service,
it has the ability to ingest millions of streaming
events per second from anywhere in the world
and process it as they happen.
Cloud Pub/Sub is a HIPAA-compliant service,
offering fine-grained access controls and
end-to-end encryption.
Since it is a part of Google cloud’s Stream
Analytics so you can take advantage of integrations
with multiple services, such as Cloud Storage,
Gmail update events and Cloud Functions for
serverless event-driven computing.
Its Open APIs and client libraries in multiple
languages support cross-cloud and hybrid deployments.
And The use cases of it includes performing
sentiment analysis, identifying general patterns
and trends in the data, crafting responses
in real time, make real-time business decisions
etc.
Okayyy so I won’t go further than that otherwise
it would become a course on Google Cloud Platform.
I hope, you now have a fair idea of a Google
cloud PubSub architecture’s components that’s
enough for us.
And yes I more thing guys, our bond working
with Colab ends here because there is some
issue using Colab with streaming data, may
be some libraries are missing or something
like that.
So now we have to install Beam and Google
cloud PubSub on our system which is explained
step by step in the next lecture.

--- Beam connection with Google Cloud ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- Setting up GCP's PubSub Project ---

Hello guys, so we are done with the introduction,
architecture and installation.
Its now time to start doing things practically.
Fine, so we identified that Google Pub/Sub
will be the service through which Beam will
insource the streaming data But from where
does Google Pub/Sub gets the data, which data
it will send to Beam.
Well, we don’t have any sensors or IOT devices
connected to my Google Pub/Sub so we have to
take care of generating the data in Pub/Sub by ourselves and next are the few steps
to do the same.
So to deal with the streaming data in google
pub/sub, first we have to create a Project
and get its serive_account_authentication
key.
Go to  console.
Create  a new project. It may take a few seconds to create  this project. OK, so project is created.
Now to
get its authentication_key go to Service accounts.
Before that, make sure you have selected the right project.  Create service_account.
..
Now optionally, you can grant the privileges you
want in this authentication key.
I would give it Project editor , Create key,
This is the key which is going to be Downloaded in our system  . It got downloaded and you have to keep it
in a very safe location as this is the single
point of entry for your Project.
Anyone having this key can access your project
with whatever permissions you have set in
this key.
So keep it with caution.
Project is created, now you would need a publisher,
a topic and a subscription.
As a publisher which will be generating messages,
I have written a separate python script publish.py.
I will explain this script shortly.
Now we know that publisher will publish the
messages into a topic so create a topic.
For this open your Pub/Sub console.
Again Make sure you are in  your right project.
..
Create topic.
..
Now you are inside your created topic.
These are few stats for it.
Publish message count, Published bytes.
Then this is important Topic Id.
We are going to use this topic path in our
publisher script.
Then this  is subscriptions for this topic.
You need to create one. Write subscription name
Subscribe one.
Delivery type is push.
Down …down….
And create.
Topic and subscription is created and currently
these stats are showing nothing since we have
not published any message yet.
Suppose you want to manually publish a message
from UI itself, you can click on publish message.
Type the message and see here you can provide
optional message attributes as key value pairs.
These attributes are used to send additional
information about  the message.
Let me give key as language and its value
as English.
My message is published and I will
Manually pull this message since there is
no running subscriber.
Select the subscription thru which you want
to pull the message.
Mine is  Subs1.
Check the enable acknowledgement button in
order to send acknowledgment after receipt
of the message.
Click pull and here it is message. Message,  hello there,
its attributes and this message is acknowledged.
Great, this was the manual publishing of messages
just for a demo but obviously this is not
what we are going to do to generate messages.
In real time projects, client is the one who
is publishing the messages, which is the data
coming from its mobile devices, sensors or
its system’s logs etc.
In short whatever the client’s data is.
There can be some connectors included in this
whole activity for connection of client’
provider to our Publisher application.
Now again I am not a client and I don’t
have sensors or any fancy real time devices
data.
So for training purposes, I will do a workaround
and mimic the real time streaming using a
python script.
So What I will do is I will have a csv file
and read it by python line by line with a
gap of 1 second to mimic it a real time streaming data.
In fact, this approach is even followed in
few real-world scenarios, where, rather than
doing batch processing of the file they want
us to read the file line by line and have it processed
as a streaming job.
Let me give you an overview of what I have
created.

--- Run a Demo streaming pipeline on GCP ---

Guys this script is not at all related to
Beam as it is kinda streaming data preparation
task and more related to GCP and python but
still I will give you an overall idea of it
so that it is easy for you to follow the whole
approach.
This is the csv file consisting of numbers
which I am going to read thru python script.
And in the script first and foremost thing
that you would need  few ids which we
created in GCP, like Project id, topic id,
then this is  service_authentication key path
and
obviously the input file.
After every variable is set, create a instance
of publisher
Open the csv file and using a for loop read
it line by line and publish it to the topic
using publish method.
FYI, between every read, I have made the for
loop, to sleep for 1 second.
Basically, it means that my messages are getting
published after every 1 second.
Okayy, So the picture till now is that we
have a publisher which is writing to Topic
1 topic and also have a subscription for it.
Now comes the Beam part for processing this
data.
So Beam should take the data from Topic1 using
Subscribe1 subscription, process it and write
it to a file, database or even to a new topic.
Right?
For that I have created 1 more script process.py.
In the process script after importing necessary libraries
of GCP and Beam.
Establish a  connection to GCP, set input
subscription.
And since I would be writing the output to
a topic so you have to create a new topic
Topic2.
This topic and the subscription for it I have
already created, in the same way which I just
showed you.
And This is 1 important setting.
You need to set the streaming pipeline options
to true, otherwise our streaming pipeline
will behave inappropriately.
Actually, I have not discussed how to create
a pipeline with Beam options, had left it
for last.
Options are nothing  but some directories for
the runners.
As of know just understand that we have to
set this streaming option to true while building
streaming pipelines.
Then comes the Beam pipeline, it is reading
data from PubSUb using input_subscription
and writing it to output_topic.
I am not doing any aggregations on it, Simple
read and write.
Guys, you could even directly write the pipeline
output to a text file.
Not an issue.
I simply chose to write it in a topic to show
you the results live in real time.
Then Run the pipeline and yeah this also is important.
In order to run this script continuously I
have to let it run until the pipeline finishes
and returns the final status so a wait_until_finish
method for that.
Fine, so Beam has processed the data and written
it to a Topic.
Now if you want to see the messages of Topic2
thru subscribe 2 in real time.
You have to create a subscriber for it.
Correct?
This is what I did in the next script subscriber.py
Establishing the connection.
This is the subscription for Topic2.
Then create an instance of subscriber and print
that message in a callback function.
In the same function I am sending back acknowledgement
also.
Alright the scripts are completed.
Let us now run them in serial order.
Go to anaconda prompt.
Go to the folder where your scripts are present.
And before anything go to your Python environment. So activate the variable  you created.
I am into python environment now.
..
Let me open 3 instances of  it so that we can run parallely.
First run the publisher script.
Yeah great, you can see the contents of our
file are getting published. Publishing 1 number, Publishing 2 number, this will go on.
Now run the process.py
Processing would have got started.
The last one is subscriber.
Voila!
I am getting the processed data in stream.
Good work.
So guys this was the demo of a basic lifecycle
of a streaming job.
In- fact this was our first step towards learning
about streaming pipelines.
As we move further in the course, a lot of
concepts are coming related to build complex
streaming pipelines.
Stay tuned.

--- Introduction to Windows in Beam ---

Welcome guys to the Windowing section of this
course.
Windowing is a very important and crucial
concept of any stream processing environment,
without it processing real-time data is almost
impossible.
If you want to get real time results windowing
is necessary.
Let me show you why.
Ok, so till now when we were processing a
batch file, all the data in a Pcollection
was bounded.
Means the data was finite and was pre-known
to us before a transform is applied on it.
So suppose if we have a file of 2 columns,
user name and the clicks he made on a website.
Since it is a file so it has a finite number
of records in it.
Now I am grouping this data by user_name.
Since the data is bounded, group by will group
all the elements on name and this would be
the output Pcollection.
Right?
Now contrary to this, take a case when your
data is streaming.
As soon as the user is clicking on your website
a record is coming.
In that case all your Pcollections will hold
unbounded data, as the data is continuously
flowing in them all the time at regular or
irregular intervals.
In this case, if you do groupby then on what
data it shall do groupby.
On this much, this much or this much.
Data is continuously coming all the time.
At no time you can say that hey, I have received
complete data for this key.
So with an unbounded data set, it is impossible
to collect all of the elements, since new
elements are constantly being added and the
streams may be infinite, never ending.
Problem isn’t it.
Don’t worry.
Here Windowing comes to our rescue.
By implementing Windows in our pipeline we
basically will set a metric on the data it
should accumulate to perform a grouping operation.
Now this metric can be number of records to
process, can be the records collected in a
defined interval of time or anything else,
actually this metric is decided by a windowing
function which we will discuss it further
in this section.
As of know just understand that window provides
a mechanism to split the data stream into
buckets of finite size over which groupBy
computations can be applied.
Windows are subset of streams which are computed
as individual units.
So Now in this case if I am doing a group
by, I will get the per key, per window results.
First window, inside it the grouped results
of different names.
Second window, inside it the grouped results
of different names.
How much data a window shall contain or after
how much interval a window should get created
is explained in next lectures.
And yes, one important thing here I would
like to mention is that Windowing occurs on
an as-needed basis.
It only comes into action when a transform
which needs it, is happening.
For example, in this scenario itself.
Lets say I have defined some windowing function
to generate windows of every 2 minutes and
after it, I applied a filter transform and
then groupBy.
In this pipeline, the windowing function has
no effect on the filter transform, because
filter transform does not need it, it just
has to either accept or discard a record for
which completeness of all the elements is
not required.
Windowing will only come into action when
groupby is performed.
This will be the start point of a Window getting
considered.
However, all the  Subsequent transforms are applied
to the results of the Windows only.
Understood now you can use windowing with fixed-size data
sets in bounded PCollection as well.
In that case all of your data will be considered
under a 1 global window which anyway does not have
impact on the output, if provided.
In-fact, even if you don’t set a windowing
function, there is still a window int it – all
elements in your PCollection are assigned
to a single global window.
Bounded or unbounded, they are considered
to be in 1 global window by default.
If your Pcollection is bounded, then not overriding
the windowing function does not have any impact
on the results and it will work fine.
Of course, all of the previous practicals
what we did using a file had a default global
window assigned to it and were giving correct
results which is obvious.
However, If you don’t set a non-global windowing
function for your unbounded PCollection and
subsequently use a grouping transform such
as GroupByKey or Combine, your pipeline will
generate an error upon construction and your
job will eventually fail.
Which is also obvious because grouping will
never happen then.
Clear?
So guys that’s all for the windows introduction.
I hope you are now well aware of the fact
why windowing is heart of stream processing.

--- Mobile Game Example ---

Like I mentioned in the previous lecture that
windowing is a metric which defines when to
group your streaming data.
In this lecture we will continue digging more
into it and ultimately will discuss what all
types of windows does Beam have.
Fine, so before we I use any technical words
let me put on the table a real-world scenario
which will lay the foundation of this section.
Assume our company has launched a new war
game worldwide which has both offline and online mode.
This game was a hit and millions of users
from around the world are now playing it.
They can play one o one or can make teams
and compete with other teams.
U know like we have PUBG these days.
I am sure most of you have heard of it.
And I won’t make the rules very complex
for the game, just assume that 1 kill is equal
to 1 score.
Now every time a player score a point, his
mobile device is sending that information
along with other infos like which player did
he eliminated, with which weapon the kill
was taken, in which part of map it was taken
etc things, I am sending a full-fledged info
of 1 kill to the main servers of the game
where these infos are getting accumulated.
Now in the servers we might have written a
very simple logic to just add the scores for
a player or might have written very complex
logic like u know identifying some real time
patterns of a user.
Let’s suppose we are doing both.
I am adding the scores as well as identifying
the kill pattern of a player, by kill pattern
we can imagine that by recognising the pattern
of weapons used for the kills, I want to know
with which weapon the player is master in.
So obviously the scores should be incremented
to 1 as soon as they arrive in server but
if you have to determine a pattern, it can
be recognized  with every kill.
Pattern can only be determined with some sufficient
amount of data.
By this, What I am trying to imply is that
we should process the incoming data at different
times.
Scores should be added immediately as they
arrive and for patterns, we should accumulate
the data and then process it, Now it’s up
to us how much data you want to accumulate
to determine the patterns.
After 1 hour, 2 hours, 1 day, per game or
per session of the user.
To this 1 hour, 1 day all the events we consider
as 1 window.
Like 1 hour window, 1 day window, 1 session
window.
For other use cases it can be even 1 minute
window, 2 minute window like this.
Now based on these variety of times, we have
some predefined window which are applicable
in most of the real world use cases.
These are
Tumbling windows, also known as Fixed Time
Windows
Sliding Time Windows
Per-Session Windows
Global Window
Each of these windows has its own way of grouping
the data.
Let me put it this way also.
So suppose we have an incoming stream of data
coming at regular or irregular timings.
A window gets created as soon as the first
element that should belong to this window
arrives.
This window stars accumulating the data till
a specific condition specified in the windowing
function is met.
Then other window starts and it ends as soon
as the condition is met, that condition can
be the time in seconds passed or event is
passed or when count of entities in window
reached maximum limit etc other things.
Each of this condition falls into a different
type of window Tumbling, Sliding, Per-Session
or Global window.
These are few types of built-in windows which
are pre provided to us.
Apart from built-in window you can even create
your own custom window.
We will discuss each of these windows in detail
with their implementation further in the section
but before that I want you to understand some
other thing in next lecture.

--- Time Notions in Streaming Frameworks ---

So guys before we go into practicals there
is 1 more important thing to explain, the
time notions in a stream processing environment.
What time should we consider to create the
window.
Basically, we have 2 types of time notions
in streaming.
Event time and processing time.
These times play a crucial role in processing
as they determine what data is to be processed
in a window.
To explain these time notions, I would recall
our example of mobile game.
So an event time is the time when a particular
event which is to be calculated, occurred
at source.
In our game, event time is the time when a
player made a kill and earned a score.
So if the player earned a score at 2 o’clock
then event time for that will be 2 o’ clock.
Usually this time is typically embedded within
the records.
All the sources which are generating and sending
events embeds a timestamp with the record.
Now processing time is when that event started
getting processed in our system.
It refers to the system time of machine that
is executing the respective operation.
Definitely sending the information over the
network to reach out to servers will take
some time, even though in milliseconds or
seconds but still it is to be considered.
So processing time is the time when a particular
event started getting processed.
Let us compare these two times in this graph.
Here X axis define the event time when player
scored point and y axis is processing time
when the score was added in servers.
In case if we are doing a batch processing,
where the events in file were generated long
ago and we are processing it now, there actually
is no comparison between these 2 time notions
and in-fact it doesn’t even really matters
in batch processing.
But in stream processing where we want to
process the data as soon as it is generated,
in that cases, both these notions are very
close to each other.
In a very ideal situation that everyone dreams
of is, the processing time should be equal
to event time, means the scores should get
added in our servers as soon as they are earned
in player’s device.
If both the times are same then for each of
the event in the device, this graph would
show a single straight line.
Right?
But this is a hypothetical situation and does
not really happen in real time, because of
the reasons, one is the obvious one that
there is definitely a transmission time for
an event to reach the servers and if the network
is slow it can even delay more, but still
these delays can be overlooked as doesn’t
matter how much the network is slow, there
won’t be much difference in event and processing
times.
But since this game is very popular so it
is getting played all over the world at almost
any time, users are playing it while they
are on trains, planes, they are on a mountainous
trips anywhere even if they are  off the network.
To take a scenario, where a user is on some train
playing this game and train enters into a
10 minute tunnel, so he will be off the network
for the next 10 mins but still be earning
scores.
User is earning scores for those 10 mins but
they are going to reach the servers only after
he is back in network.
The problem becomes more intensified when
player is on a long flight, there we can have
hours of difference between processing and
event times.
Like these, we have a good number of factors
due to which events can arrive late at servers.
So see, in this graph, player was in a tunnel,
he scored at 2 o clock but it reached at 2.10
for processing when he came out of tunnel.
Now the question is how do we process this
data.
Do we process it in the current window or
its actual window to which this event belongs
to .
In case of Batch processing this thing does
not matter as we might be calculating this
whole data days after the events arrived.
So whether it arrived at 2.10 2.20 or even
hours later, if we are processing it after
a month then this 2.10 element would anyhow
get processed.
But if we have to process this data in real-time
in windows.
The difficult decision for us to make is what
time notion should we choose to process a
window, event time or processing time.
Now if we are processing the window based
on event time, lets say process a window of
5 min with elements having event timestamp
2 o’clock to 2.05.
Now to get the correct results, we have to
make sure that every element falling into
this window i.e. all the elements having event
timestamp between 2 and 2.05 have arrived
in our system.
Like I mentioned, all the elements are timestamped
from the source with a time of when that element
got generated at source.
So for getting accurate results in a event
window, we have to make sure that all the
elements having timestamps between 2 o’clock
to 2.05 have arrived in our system.
That is Ok but what about these late elements.
How long shall we wait for this element to
appear in the system and then we process it.
We may not receive the events for hours and
hours if player went offline in between.
So windowing with event time, latency is the
big issue here.
That’s one case.
In other case if we process the elements based
on processing time notion.
We create a 5 min processing time window to
produce the results.
In that case latency won’t be there as we
would be processing for exact 5 system minutes.
All the elements which arrived in the system
in those 5 mins will be processed but the
results would be incomplete and inaccurate.
For example, if I am calculating the number
of kills for a player in every 5 mins.
Then for window of 2 to 2.05, these events
are fine as they were generated between 2
and 2.05 and also reached the server on time
but what about these late elements.
Ideally it should have got calculated in this
window but now it would get included in next
window of 2.05 to 2.10.
It is also possible that a late element from
previous window could get added in the current
window.
So calculating a window on processing time
was incomplete and showed incorrect results.
So you see, we have 2 major issues to address
while determining the windowing time notion.
Latency and Incompleteness.
Keep this in mind as we will discuss it later
How Beam uses a sophisticated approach to
address these problems.

--- What are Tumbling & Sliding Windows ---

So now that you have a clear idea of what
is event and processing time in streaming
data.
We can discuss the type of windows.
To start with, tumbling and sliding windows
are time-based windows.
It means once a window is created, window
will continue processing the data till a specific
amount of time is passed.
That amount of time, the user has to pass
while creating the window.
Once the specified amount of time is passed,
window will emit the results calculated till
that time.
So if we see diagrammatically,  suppose
this is how we are rec eiving the input data
with these even timestamps and I am defining a
tumbling window of 1 minute here.
Then, my first window data will be from here
to here i.e. all the elements which have even timestamps
between 1 o’clock to 1.01  excluding 1.01,
a 1 minute window.
The second window will start immediately,
and it will accumulate and process all the
elements having timestamps between 1.01 and
1.02  and then  close.
From there the third window starts till next
1 minute and so on.
Please note that since tumbling window is
time based, so it is possible that in each
window we have different amounts of data processed.
See in window one, we only got four entities
in 1 minute.
In window two, we have three entities and
window three has only two entities processed
over 1 minute.
So amount of data may vary within the windows.
But each window will be of 1 minute.
Next comes sliding window.
The sliding window is also time based.
The funda of creating window is same, like
of tumbling window i.e. once created, the
window will continue processing data till
a specific amount of time is passed but there
is one difference, i.e., sliding windows can
overlap.
One window can overlap the time of other window
and since multiple windows overlap so most
of the elements in a data set will belong
to more than one window.
See in tumbling windows,
the next window only starts when first window
is complete.
For example, if the first window ends at 1.01
, then the next window will only start at
1.01 and if second window ends at 1.02 , then
only the third window will start.
But in sliding window, the windows can overlap.
So if the window starts at 1 o clock,
and is expected to complete at 1.01, in between
lets say after 30 seconds, the second window
will start, which means second window has
overlapped first window by 30 seconds.
Again the third window will start at 1.01
means third window has overlapped or we can
say slided window 2 by 30 seconds.
The amount of time overlapped is called window
sliding time or period and this can be set by a
separate off set parameter while creating
windows.
This kind of windowing is useful for calculating
rollup sums and averages like calculate the
profit of last 1 hour while the window is
getting updated every 10 mins.
In that scenario my windows will be getting
slided by 10 mins and after every 10 mins
we would have new profits getting added.
Excellent, now having the knowledge of both
tumbling and sliding windows let us now take
a look at how actually these two windows are
created in a Beam pipeline.

--- Implementing Tumbling Windows ---

Now that we have the knowledge of all the
aspects of tumbling and sliding windows we
can try to implement it in a pipeline and
I will start with the tumbling windows first.
I have designed a new example for it.
This is the data
Again, I will have a csv  file as a  data and
to mimic streaming I would read by a python
script.
This is basically the transactional data of
a retail store having multiple branches.
Column 1 is store_id, col2 is store location,
column 3 is id of the product which got sold,
column 4 is the product category to which the sold
product belongs to.
Column5 is number of pieces sold.
Then buy rate of the product, sell rate of
the product in dollars.
And as I said sources usually embed the timestamp
with each event so here it is.
The timestamp when this transaction happened
at the store.
This time is the time in seconds from unix
epoch.
So store id STR_2 which is located in Mumbai
location has sold 8 pieces of product Pr_265
of Cosmetics category whose buy rate was 39
dollars and sell rate is 66 dollars.
And the transaction happened at this time
in seconds.
If the schema is clear, we can put our requirements.
First thing I want is.
I want to calculate the profit of Mumbai and
Bangalore stores individually every 20 seconds
i.e.
Mumbai and Bangalore stores are earning how
much profit in every 20 seconds.
Clearly it is a case of tumbling windows.
Let me show you the implementation of it.
Same like we did it in the demo example.
I will have 3 scripts for it.
Publish, processing and subscribe.
Publish will read the data from csv file and
throw it into a topic after every second.
Processing script will have our beam pipeline
and outputs the result to a new topic.
At last subscribe will show us the live results
while reading the results from  output topic.
Clear?
Now Publisher and subscribe script is same
which I showed you in demo example, no change
in it.
Our area of concern is  this script in which
beam pipeline is written.
In the script, first of all I am  importing
the usual libraries and  this time import window
library as well.
Then the usual variables holding service_authentication_key,
input subscription, output_topic and all that.
Keep streaming option to true.
After it, these are few methods  and this is the  pipeline.
I have read the stream of data from subscription
and on that stream I am applying a Map transform
to trim the record.
Why because, while ReadfromPubSub is reading
the stream, few extra strings will get embedded
with the record at the end.
See, this is the record which we will get
after the read.
You can see that in the end /r and endline
characters got embedded.
So to remove those unwanted characters, a
Map transform, which will take the whole row
as input and trim it using python rstrip and
lstrip trimming functions.
After the input is clean we can split it on
comma delimiter giving us an array of 8 fields.
Guys again I am writing the step by step output
of each transform in the comments for first
row in the file.
You can see it parallelly for better visualization
of code.
Since the profit of only Mumbai and Bangalore
location is to be calculated so apply a filter
transform.
Filter where second element of array is equal
to Mumbai or Bangalore.
Then to calculate the profit on the transaction
a Map transform.
This method calculate profit is defined here.
Profit = sell price – buy price.
And please do remember to first type cast
the element to integers to perform any mathematical
operations since the input rows are read as
strings.
Profit is calculated and the same is appended
as string in the input array itself.
Which means our returned array has now 9 fields. This is the record which it will return.  It is having 27 appended at last.
And here comes the important p rt.
Guys since the windows are calculated on the
event timestamps which are embedded in the
datastream.
So it is necessary to let Beam know that hey,
from my input data you have to consider this
field as timestamp field and for all the windowing
related stuff you have to use this field only.
Right?
This is how we intimate beam about our timestamp
field using A map Transform. Map Transform is using this method.
In its method, I am first taking the timestamp
value in a variable and unix time stamp and then returning it
using Window’s TimestampedValue method.
In the arguments of this method we will return
the ongoing stream and the extracted timestamp
value in integers.
Now this beam knows, what value it should consider
as event timestamp.
This Map is done and since we have to do the
grouping on store id so make the key value
pairs with key as store_id field and value
as the profit field which we just calculated
above.
For first record in file we would be haveing key as str_2 and value as 27.
And after this, you can create a Tumbling
windows of 20 seconds using windowInto Ptransform.
All the window related or triggers related
parameters we pass, we pass it in windowInto
Ptransform.
Inside it you must provide a WindowFn class.
The WindowFn determines the windowing function
your PCollection will use for subsequent grouping
transforms.
Here we are implementing Fixed windows so
our windowing function will be FixedWIndows.
Inside the arguments of windowing function,
pass the time in seconds for your window.
Now This much only for the windowing.
So you can say, here with this line of code,
a fixed window of 20 seconds got created in
my pipeline.
Any subsequent grouping transforms will emit
the result for every 20 seconds of event time.
I repeat 20 seconds of event time and not
processing time.
As the final steps of pipeline, do the sum
per store, using combinePerkey transform.
we had already discussed this transform.
And yes
Guys, 1 last step before we write the output.
As you know that we have typecasted few elements
of the ongoing list to integers, so we need
to convert them back to string before writing
the output.
The reason behind this conversion is that
we are writing to PubSub topic which takes
data only in form of byte strings.
Hence again a Map transform for the conversion. This is the method and it is doing nothing.
It is simply encoding the elements to strings.
Ok, And the last step will be to write the
results to a new Topic.  This pipeline definition is done.
Subscriber like I told you is same as of demo.
No need to check it.
And I guess  its time to now run the project.
Guys one update, since we have to calculate
the total profit of a transaction, so I had
to  multiply the profit with no. of products
sold. I have forgot it earlier,
So now  did it here. Now run it.
First I will make the subscriber up and running
so that we should not miss any record of publisher.
Then processing script.
Both the scripts are up now they won’t miss
any data.
And at last, publish it. It has started publishing the data
Great, we got the result of our first window.
In first window of 20 seconds Str_1 has earned
1405 profit and Str_2 has earned 1454 profit.
.
Lets wait for the second result also.
OK, so we  got the results of second window also.
Window will keep emitting results till it
is getting streaming data.

--- Recommendation for Windowing ---

Hi Guys, in the last lecture you saw the working
of Fixed windows and here is an important
piece of information for those who are doing
practicals side by side.
So guys in the data file I was using this
timestamp field to let Beam know that the
event occurred at this unix time on device
and it has to consider this field for windowing.
Correct.
Now since we are dealing with real-time streaming
data, so this time should be the near to real
time i.e. it should be nearly in sync with
the system time then only it would create
properly timed windows.
At the recording time  of all my windowing
lectures, I have synced this field with current
time.
While I was running fixed window example or
all the windowing examples which are coming
next, this field was changed according to
that time. Let me put it this way.
So, See, if you convert this value to date then
it would be some 26th March 2019 with some  time.
Now if you try running the windows with the
same seconds th en you would not get properly
timed windows as beam would recognise  that these  events had happened months
back.
So what you can do is either you have sync
this field manually every time while you run
the code or if you are good in python then
may be you can even try writing some code
for it.
But the easiest way to do this is let pubsub
do this for us.
Google Pubsub by default attaches a timestamp
with every record while publishing it and
that timestamp is the time when that record
was published.
We can take leverage of that timestamp and
since we are consuming the published records
in real time as we are running the processing
script almost at the same time after running
publisher script so the timings would be nearly
synced and you will get properly timed window
results.
So what you can do is, remove this field  and also in the pipeline, this time we
do not explicitly need to extract the timestamp
field so remove this.
Beam will automatically figure out the timestamp
from published record and I guess here the
profit field, it should be  7 since one column is eliminated now.
Yeah run it. First is subscriber.  Then fixed window. Publish.
See you are getting properly timed windows.
Actually, when exactly a window emits the
results is explained further in the course
in watermarks and triggers section.
And yes, guys I am attaching the codes and
data of both these cases with timestamp and
without timestamp in resources tab,.
You can try any of them and I personally recommend
you to use without timestamp code.

--- Implementing Sliding Windows ---

So guys we are done with the fixed windows.
Lets move to our second requirement.
So suppose from the same data I also want
to know the last 30 seconds profits of
Bangalore and Mumbai stores and that too, get updated  after every 10 seconds.
I want a new result every 10 seconds and in the result it should depict
how much profit both the stores have earned
in last 30 seconds.
It means our window should get updated every
10 seconds which clearly is the case of sliding
windows.
To achieve this What I have to do is, in the
same code replace the windowing function by
Sliding windows and provide the appropriate parameters. First is window time and
then is sliding time.  My sliding time is 10 seconds.
So it means now after every 10 seconds my windows result
will get updated.
Rest is same.
But this time I am going to print the elements
in the processing script itself because u
know subscriber has its own mechanism of taking
the processed records from a topic and then
show it to us and there can be certain discrepancies
in the result so its better we print it while
processing only because anyway they are not
getting consumed by any downstream applications.
So I have just added   a print element  statement here. Now let me run it. This time we don't need a subscriber since we are printing it  script itself.
I will fast forward the video and directly
come up with the results.
I have pasted the window start and end timestamps
in front of each result for clarification.
Yeah so this is the output of Ist window,
of 30 seconds whose start time was 200 and
end was 230.
In first window str_2 earned this much profit
and str_1 earned this much profit.
Then window slided for 10 seconds so start
time would become 210 and endtime would be
240.
Means the latest 10 second data 31 to 40 seconds
got added and the previous 200 to 210 went
out of the window.
Again, it slided for 10 seconds from 220 to
250.
So this was all about sliding.
See you in next lecture.

--- Session Windows & its implementation ---

Next comes the session windows.
Session windows are created based on activity
within a session.
Session windows do not have a fixed start
or end time.
They will start whenever an input stream starts
flowing in and it closes when it does not
receive elements for a certain period of time.
In other words, we can say the window closes
when there is certain gap of inactivity.
Lets understand it by taking an example of
online banking website.
So Whenever a user login to bank’s portal and
start doing its activity, a window for that
user will open and as long as the user is
active, the window will remain open and accumulate
the elements.
For user 1, its first element arrived at 0
seconds, a window got opened and for that particular
user it started accumulating data, after
that user1 becomes inactive from 5th second
and it remains inactive for next 15 seconds.
If our session window is of 15 seconds then
the window for user 1 will close there after
this 15 seconds gap of inactivity time.
Hence emitting the results at 20 seconds.
This inactivity time which decides when the
window is to be closed is set in a parameter
while you define session windows.
After the inactivity if user again becomes
active, a new window will start from there
and will remain open till it encounters another
15 second inactivity gap.
And the same thing is happening for all the
users.
For user 2, his window will open at 5th second
and he remained inactive from 10 to 25 seconds, so
his window w ill emit results at 25th second.
Same like this for every user their windows
will be opened and closed based on the inactivity
gap.
Understood?
Let us implement this session windows in our
running example.
So suppose I want to see, for Mumbai and Bangalore
stores, Which category of products is getting
sold less frequently or you can say not continuously
and along with that also output, how many
products of it are getting sold in 1 session.
From the requirement, It means that for every
product category, we need to induce a session
windows of x mins, depending on what are the
metrics of term ‘not continuously’ from
the client.
Anyways, I will assume by ‘not continuously’
means a gap of no more than 25 seconds.
Talking in our terms means a session window
of 25 seconds needs to be implemented.
Lets see it.
So guys, first of all, to demonstrate the working of session
windows, somehow I need to put an inactivity
gap of more than 25 seconds for a product
category.
For that what I will do is, I will tweak the
data a little.
I will first change this category to cosmetic and replace
all the following cosmetics category by some
other category.
So see, now what will happen is a window for
cosmetics will open when it receives the first
record, it will accumulate this record also
in the window but after that it won’t receive
any cosmetics element for next 25 seconds,
which will prompt the window to emit results.
Same like this, there may be other categories
in the data which would have 25 seconds of
gap.
Their windows will emit results as per their
own respective timings. So data is done.
In the pipeline, change this to session of 25 seconds
And here key will be product category and
value is number of products sold, so 3,4.
And this time I would be using the  publisher timestamp,
so I can comment out this.
I guess, that is it.
We can run it. first run the session window.  Then publish it.
Yeah, as expected cosmetics window had emit
its results after 25 seconds of inactivity with the total product count.
As of now there is no other category which
is not getting sold frequently.
Let us wait for few more time.
Ok so fashion category also had some inactivity.
and  what if I close the publisher and give
all the keys an inactivity of 25 seconds.
Yup, as soon as the keys are having inactivity
of 25 seconds, their corresponding windows
are emitting results.

--- Global Windows & its implementation ---

So guys we are left with our last type of
built-in windows which is Global windows.
I have already given the glimpse of it in
the starting videos of this section.
Global windows are a little different from
others as it is a pseudo window and does not
have an end.
Global windows basically means 1 single window
per key.
Like 1 window for STR_1, 1 window for Str_2,
like this, a single window for each key.
A window is created as soon as the elements
starts arriving and the same window will be
open throughout the time for that key.
You might wonder how will it do the computations
then?
Since we are creating only 1 window, does
that mean A window will gets processed once
it has received all the elements for a key.
But this statement is also invalid since we
are dealing with streaming infinite data,
so the data is never going to end and like
this our window is never going to get processed.
Problem?
Well not.
Actually, global windows do the computation
with the help of triggers.
Triggers are the ones which can process a
window even if it still accumulating the data.
A trigger is fired from time to time in the
window and results are emitted till that particular
point of time or count in window.
So along with the global windows creation,
we will also specify a trigger in the code,
in order to compute the window at a particular
point of time.
If we see in our example a window will
open as soon as the elements start flowing
in.
there will be 2 windows created for store
1 and store 2.
Until and unless we specify a non- default
trigger to this window, it will remain open
and keep on accumulating the data and will
not perform any aggregations.
So it is mandatory that we specify some trigger
to do the computations.
A trigger will get fired from time to time
after a specified condition inside it is met
and as soon as the trigger is fired, the computation
for that particular state of window is done.
In-fact a default trigger is present with
each window even if you specify it or not.
A window’s trigger is the one which asks
window to produce the results.
The default trigger attached to window generally
requires the entire data set to be available
before processing, which is not possible with
continuously updating data.
So to perform aggregations on an unbounded
PCollection that uses global windowing, you
should specify a non-default trigger for that
PCollection.
Again trigger can be of few types with each
type having its own way of triggering method.
Some are count based triggers, some are time
based, like this.
Actually guys, trigger is a whole separate
section on its own which is coming next.
As of now just understand that you should
specify a non-default trigger in case you
are using a global window on unbounded data.
If I try to implement in our example, say
for STR_1 and STR_2 of Mumbai and Bangalore
stores, Calculate the profit of its every
5 sales, then this is how we do it.
I will use a global window here with a count-based
trigger.
See, defined a global window, with a trigger
of 5 elements means the window will emit its
results repeatedly after accumulating every
5 elements per store and accumulation_mode
is Discarding.
I will explain this accumulation_mode in triggers
section so please wait till that.
And since global windows are count based windows
so the concept of syncing timestamps with
real time does not matter.
You may or may not extract the timestamp,
it doesn’t affect the output of global window.
Good.
We can run the pipeline.
I will be printing the results in processing
script itself.
So see, this is the output of first 5 elements of
str_2   and then this is the output of first 5
elements of str_1 and so on it will continue after it is getting 5 elements per key.

--- What is Watermark ---

welcome guys in this lecture we will
learn about an important concept of
streaming engines which is water working
while processing windows using event time
so guys in previous lecture we learnt
about windowing using event time we got
to know that windows are processed based
on the event timestamp of its element. A
window is processed when a specified
amount of time is passed but does it get
your attention
how beam will keep a track of event time
how beam would know how much event time
has passed. See if it would have been
processing time then a system clock
could be used as a tracker . Five minutes
of system time means five minutes of
processing time but that's not the case
with event time you cannot use a system
clock as tracker for event time . So it
seems that we need some way or a
variable which can keep a track of what
event timestamp has passed in the job. If
we are defining a window of five minutes
then there should be some entity which
can keep a track that ok one minute
timestamp elements have passed, two
minute timestamp elements have passed
and so on . Right, this mechanism of beam
to measure progress in event time is
called watermarks. Watermarks declares
that this much amount of eventt time has
passed in the stream and the current
window would not accept any element
which has timestamp less than the
current watermark value. Let me show you
an illustration of it . Suppose we have an
incoming stream of data with these event
timestamp in seconds 5 7 8 12 14. These
are the event timestamps attached with
the elements. Now assume at any point of
time or watermark is at 12 seconds. It
means that our event time has reached 12
seconds all the elements on right side
having event time less than 12 seconds
have already been processed except late
elements. So here watermark is playing
the role of an indicator which specifies
how much event time has passed in the
stream. Based on the current watermark
value a window can take few decisions
like what elements to consider as late
elements, when the window should emit
results and all. Guys  please understand
that timestamp of elements and
watermarks goes hand-in-hand . So here if
the latest element which entered in the
window has timestamp
of 12 seconds beam assumes that all
the elements till 12 seconds have
arrived and hence the watermark is also
at 12 seconds. As soon as the next
element with more timestamp comes in
like of 14 seconds or watermark may
point to 14 seconds and beam will assume
that all the elements till 14 seconds
have arrived but please don't make this
as a rigid rule.  A water mark does not get
incremented upon every element that
comes in. There is some predefined
interval time after which it gets
updated. Moreover for the sake of
simplicity we have assumed that we are
using a very straightforward watermark
which goes along with the event timestamp
of elements. In practice your P
collections data source determines the
watermark  and the value of  watermarks is
not only dependent on one factor. Its
value is determined by taking i nto
consideration a lot many factors like
late elements allowed lateness etc.
So in nutshell we can say that
watermarks go along with the event
timestamps but they are not exactly the
same and what I just showed you in the
example was very naive approach of
watermarking because all the elements
are in order. This  stream is having
elements in ascending order of
timestamps which means there are no late
elements . A person on train can send us
late data due to which we can receive an
element of ten-second timestamp when the
watermark has already reached 20 seconds. Technically these kinds of elements
which arrived after the watermark has
crossed its time stem value are
considered as late elements. So what do
we do for the late elements . Shall we
drop it. Yes,  by default all the late elements are
dropped by a window. However if at all if
it is to be calculated it only makes
sense to calculate it in the same window
to which it belongs to . It makes no sense
to aggregate the scores of 9 to 10 our
window in the current running window of
11 to 12 hour.  Right. So guys beam gives
a chance to late elements to enter in
the respective window using allowed
lateness operation. Allowed lateness is
the time by which an element can be laid
before it is finally dropped. In fact
allowed lateness is something which you
can explicitly
provide while configuring your
windows. Default value of it is zero
means
late elements are dropped. But you can
change this time while configuring the
windows. So now it means the elements
which has a timestamp of watermark plus
allowed lateness are still added in the
window. Correct . So does that mean our
actual window size is equals to user
specified window time plus allowed
lateness. Does that mean your window will
not get processed till its actual time
and allowed lateness time has elapsed.
Actually no, window won't wait for that
much time. It will process its elements
after the specified window time in
windowing function has passed. By saying
this I'm contradicting my own earlier
statement that late elements which are
arriving under the allowed lateness time
are still added in the window . Actually
guys both the statements are correct . A
window will process the elements when
the specified window time has passed and
also allowed late elements get processed
in the same window. Both things to happen
because of window may emit results more
than once. Yes, you heard it right . A
window can emit results more than once.
First when its windowing function time
has passed and second when the late
elements arrive with an allowed lateness
time. How exactly it happens is explained
under previous section . Now students if
you want to implement late data you can
do it by invoking the with allowed
lateness operation when you set your P
collections windowing strategy . As
arguments pass the allowed lateness time
it can be in seconds, minutes, hours
anytime as per  your use case. Please note
that as of now managing late data is not
supported in the beam SDK for Python it
is only in Java but whenever it comes it
will come with the same method
implementation of with allowed lateness. In window into transform, you just have
to invoke with allowed lateness
operation and pass the allowed lateness
time. And if I want to summarize this
lecture, I would say that a running
watermark in stream is our best estimate
to which we can say till what past time
we have collected the data for excluding
late elements.So when the watermark was
at 12 seconds we could say that
apparently
we have collected all the data of window
from zero to 12 seconds and it's safe to
calculate that window. And that is why a
window is processed when the water mark
has reached to the end timestamp of a
window.  I repeat a window is only
processed when the watermark has reached
to the end timestamp of a window. A
window of 0 to 10 seconds get processed
when watermark has reached to 10 seconds.
After it second window of 10 to 20
seconds would have started at 10 second
and the best time to calculate is when
watermark is at 20 seconds.  I hope I have
made myself clear. So students watermark is done but still
at this stage we have a vague picture of
how exactly the window handles late
elements by emitting results more than
once using triggers.
Let us discuss it deeply in the next
section.

--- How Beam handles late elements using Triggers ---

Welcome guys to this section where we are
going to dig deep into triggers.
Triggers as the name itself suggests are something
which prompts a window to emit results.
When collecting and grouping data into windows,
Beam uses triggers to determine when to emit
the aggregated results of each window.
Like I mentioned in earlier video that even
if you specify or not, every window has a
default trigger attached to it and the default
trigger has its nature to instruct the window
to emit results when it estimates all data
has arrived for that window, i.e. when the
watermark has crossed the end of window.
But this is the default trigger’s behavior.
You can anytime set triggers for your windows
to change this default behavior.
Beam provides a number of pre-built triggers
that you can set.
Apart from this you can create your own custom
trigger if you want.
Now based on the trigger type, your windows
can emit early results  i.e. before the watermark
has crossed your windows or it can also emit
late results upon arrival of any late elements.
Let me show this you in a diagram to make
things more clear.
Ok so this was the scenario which we were
following so far for tumbling windows.
The results were only emitted when the watermark
has crossed the end of your window.
With watermarking, we were able to manage
latency and completeness to some extent but
the issue of late element still persists.
Let us see how we can handle it using a more
sophisticated technique of trigger’s early
and late firing.
So in the same example instead of windows
emitting results  only at one time, it may
emit more than once.
In other words we can say a trigger will get
fired within a window more than once.
It can be an early triggering where the window
is still accumulating the data.
So in Ist window of 1 minute, trigger can
prompt the window to emit early results at
let say in 30 seconds.
In this case of early triggering windows result
will say that hey I might not have seen the
full data for this window but this is a kind
of estimated value to be the output at this
point.
After early firing, we can have an on-time
firing of triggers i.e. when the watermark
have crossed the windows.
This is what we were doing so far.
In the case of on-time firing the windows
result will say that hey, this what is the
result so far.
After on-time firing we have a late firing,
which will trigger when it receives the  late
element.
Whenever Beam receives this late element it
will be tagged to its corresponding window
and that window will get processed again and
eventually giving a new result.
Now you may ask how exactly the window is
fired again.
Actually guys runners of the pipeline saves
a state of window till its allowed lateness
time before it is completely removed.
Within the allowed lateness time of a window,
if any late element of that window is arriving.
Using the window’s saved state it is computed
again with the new elements and the new results
are emitted.
So you see, we have few results with us for
every window.
Early results, on time results, and late results.
Now this is up to you and your downstream
applications how do you want to receive the
data.
If they want to use the early and ontime results,
they can keep  it and discard the late firing
results.
But if th ey want to update their results and
keep the correct results then they can keep
the refinements of late firing.
Let me put the application of these early
and late firings in real-world use cases where
these firings set trade-offs between completeness,
latency and cost.
Assume you have given your company’s advertisement
in facebook or google ad sense.
I am sure you are aware of facebook’s and
google’s advertising methods.
They do charge you for views and clicks on
your ad.
As soon as a user click on your ad, google
bills you a certain amount and this all is
happening live in real time with billions
of its user base.
Now here are 2 cases.
Google will try to show you your billing amount
as soon as possible because they don’t want
to give us a surprise at the end of day with
a huge or unexpected bill.
This also gives you an extra capability to
change our ad strategies in real-time when
we are seeing how and where our money is getting
spent.
Secondly at the end of day, google will send
you one final report with bill amount for
the whole day spent which will include your
per hour, per ad, per region expenditure like
this a lot many reports.
Right?
Now, In the first case where google is trying
to give users a running estimate, latency
matters much than completeness.
They want to show you the bill as early as
possible and even if the billing of few clicks
doesn’t gets added that’s not an issue
because anyhow we are generating a final bill
at end of day.
You see, In this case of running estimate,
google is showing you the results of its early
firing and on-time firing of their calculating
window which may be of 1 hour.
I don’t know.
The bill amount which you are seeing may or
may not be 100% correct but it is an approximate
amount as you know some late entries in network
would have got missed and hence report may
not be 100% correct but a running estimate
is available for you time to time.
And in the second case where you are getting
a final full day bill amount, completeness
matters much than latency.
Google would not want any click to get missed
for billing for which it may even have to wait
some time.
because final report it may be sending
to you after few hours or may be even next
day.
Also to give you a 100% accurate report of
per hour, per user expenditure it has to make
sure that all the data of a particular hour
or user has arrived and gets processed in
exactly the same window to which it belongs
to.
So technically this would be the case of showing
results of late firing of window.
If an element was late and got missed earlier,
now is the time to add it in its corresponding
window and update our results.
By late firing of a window I am making sure
that none of its elements are missed.
So in this way with the help of watermarking
and triggers we are able to manage the completeness
and latency of the results and also get accurate
results for the streaming data.
So guys, I hope this example must have cleared
everything regarding the trigger firings where
and how the results of different firings are
applicable.
Taking away this knowledge let us implement
triggers in our pipeline in the next lecture.

--- Types of Triggers & their implementation ---

Before implementing triggers Let us quickly
discuss about the types of triggers.
First is Event time triggers implemented as
AfterWatermark trigger.
These are the default triggers which emits
the contents of a window after the watermark
passes the end of the window.
If you are using both the default windowing
configuration and the default trigger, the
default trigger emits exactly once, and late
data is discarded.
This is because the default windowing configuration
has an allowed lateness value of 0.
Second is Processing time trigger which comes
with the name of AfterProcessingTime.
As the name suggests, this trigger operates
on processing time.
This trigger prompts a window to emit results
after a certain amount of processing time
has passed.
The processing time is determined by the system
clock, rather than the data element’s timestamp.
This trigger  is useful for
triggering early results from a window, particularly
a window with a large time frame such as a
single global window.
So suppose your window is of 1 hour then you
can apply a processing time trigger of 10
minutes to get the output after every 10 system
minutes.
Then is Data driven triggers with the name
of AfterCount.
This trigger works on basis of element count
in a window.
It fires after the current window has collected
at least N elements.
If you specify a count trigger with N = 5,
then it will prompt the window to emit results
again and again when window has 5 elements
in its pane.
But you should use it with caution.
For example, lets say in a Global window,
you specified AfterCount trigger of 50 elements
and only 30 elements arrive in the window
even after a long time, now those 30 elements
will sit around forever.
They are not going to get processed.
If those 30 elements are important to you,
consider using 1 more trigger along with it,
you know like a composite trigger which is
a combination of multiple triggers.
This will allow you to specify multiple firing
conditions such as fire either when I receive
50 elements, or after every 10 system seconds.
After having this knowledge, now we are ready
to implement them in our pipeline.
We can invoke a trigger inside WindowInto
transform where we specify windowing function.
Trigger can be added as an additional parameter
to the WindowInto transform.
So this is fixed windows which as of now has
default  event time trigger.
If I want the window to emit results after
every 10 system seconds, then I can override
the default trigger by AfterProcessingTime
trigger.
But before that I need to  import
from ApacheBeam.transforms I am importing AfterBottlemark AfterProcessingTime trigger   After Count trigger and Accumulation_ mode and to Pass the trigger
pass it in the parameters
One  more thing we have to specify here along with
the trigger is its  accumulation modes.
Accumulation mode determines whether the system
accumulates the results of every firing of
window or not.
So See, here we are specifying a processing trigger
of 10 seconds it means the window is going
to emit results every 10 seconds.
Now you have to specify to Beam whether those
10 seconds results be aggregated to the previous
10 seconds result or it should emit only those
10 seconds results.
Based on this we have 2 types of accumulator
modes.
ACCUMULATING and DISCARDING
If we have set the firing mode as ACCUMULATING
then the previous fired results are accumulated
in their subsequent fired results.
If the mode is set to discarding then the
fired results are not accumulated and they
would be the result of its own 10 seconds
elements.
Let me explain this also in example.
Suppose you are calculating the sum of numbers
over a 1 minute window and also triggering
the window to emit results after every 10
seconds.
Now in this, if you specify the trigger of
accumulating mode then every 10 second result
will also have the aggregation of its previous
result.
So first firing result will be 14, second
firing result will be 14+ its own sum making
it 31 third will be 46 and so on.
But if you specify discarding mode here then
the previous sum will not get added and hence
second firing result would be 17 and 3rd would
be 15.
Means their own 10 second's results.
Clear. So now I will run this example  .
So guys this is  result of first firing of trigger
i.e.  first 10 seconds of processing time and this is the second trigger firing.
It will keep on going  till the window is getting the data. one more option while defining trigger.
It is Repeatedly.
Repeatedly as the name suggests means that
this trigger has to repeatedly fire after
every 10 seconds.
So you can see that I am getting the output
after every 10 seconds since we have the respective
trigger in pipeline.
..
This was the example of ProcessingTime trigger.
Next is Data driven trigger or AfterCount
trigger.
This we had already covered in global windows
where the windowing  was emitting results after
receiving every 5 elements.
So guys  this was all about the built-in default
triggers.
Apart from this you can create composite triggers
as well by combining default triggers which
we will discuss in next lecture.
And yeah, like I mentioned that a window can
emit early and late results so we can invoke
an early and late firing in the default triggers.
Take an example of default event time
trigger.  This default  is currently emitting  the results after watermark
crosses the end of window.
But if you want it to emit early and late
results, you have to invoke 2 more triggers
inside it.
So I will pass
2 arguments early and late.
Now for each of them you have to specify a
trigger.
For early firing I have specified  AfterProcesing
time trigger of 10 seconds and for late firing
I have specified  afterCount of
5 elements.
Now this means that my fixed window is of
20 seconds.
But it is going to emit early results after
every 5 system seconds.
And if at all any late elements is coming
then window will emit results upon receiving
5 new late elements.
After every 5 late elements window will fire
again.
Now It will be upto you and according to your
use case if  you want to use this  early
and late results .
Since late elements are not supported as of
now so I can’t show you the running of it.
May be I can add it once the support comes.
Thank you.

--- Composite Triggers ---

We will now discuss about composite triggers.
So composite triggers like I said is the combination
of multiple triggers which can fire repeatedly,
at most once, or under other custom conditions.
Beam includes the following composite triggers.
Actually they are more like conditions which
decides when the default triggers will get
fired.
First is early firing and Late firing triggers, this
we have already seen.
Then is Repeatedly.
This condition specifies a trigger that executes
forever.
Any time the trigger’s conditions are met,
it causes a window to emit results and then
resets and starts over.
Use it with caution since it is a never ending
trigger.
It is recommended to combine Repeatedly with
some other condition that can cause this repeating
trigger to stop.
The we have AfterEach.
This condition combines multiple triggers
to fire in a specific sequence one after the
other.
Each time a trigger in the sequence emits
a window, the sequence advances to the next
trigger.
AfterFirst
It takes multiple triggers as arguments and
makes the window emit results when any of
its argument triggers is satisfied.
This is equivalent to a logical OR operation
for multiple triggers.
After All
It takes multiple triggers as arguments and
makes the window emit results when all of
its argument triggers are satisfied.
This is equivalent to a logical AND operation
for multiple triggers.
Last is orFinally.
This serve as a final condition to cause any
trigger to fire one final time and never fire
again.
Guys out of these the most commonly used conditions
are Early and late firings and the afterEach,
after all.
Let me show you 1 example of these conditions.
Early and late conditions, we have already
seen so I will take the other ones.
Ok, Now this thing means your fixed window
is of 60 seconds and it will emit results
repeatedly after any of these triggering conditions
is met first.
Either window has got 50 elements or 20 seconds
of processing time has passed.
As soon as any of the conditions is met window
will emit the results.
If we would have used he re AfterEach  triggering condition, then only after
both the triggering conditions are satisfied
the window will emit its results.
Clear, So guys we are done with the windowing and
Triggers in Beam and I guess we are now ready
to build some real-time streaming pipelines.
See you in next lecture.

--- Requirements & Code walk-through ---

Welcome guys to this case study where we are
going to build a streaming pipeline in Beam.
The mobile game case study which I explained
in the previous lectures would be a best example
to go with.
Let me again quickly put it across you.
So our company has launched a new war based
mobile game where multiple teams take on to
each other for points.
Each player is assigned to a team and 1 player
can not be assigned to multiple teams.
Every time a kill is taken by a player a full
information of that kill is created on device
and is sent across to company’ servers.
Based on those records we have to analyze
them and do some certain computations on it.
Let us first understand the schema of file
and few key points in it. So let me separate it, yeah.
This file contains the data for multiple games.
Each game has its own game id. This is game 1  and from here, game 2 starts and  each row
in this file represents 1 kill taken by a
player in a particular game.
Ok so first column is the game id, a single
game can continue for hours and hours in which
players can take hundreds of kills.
1st is game id, then player id who has
taken  the kill, 3rd column is corresponding
player’s name.
4th is his team id then team name  then the
weapon he used for the kill. This is  the rank of that weapon.
Weapons are ranked according to their assault
strength.
More is the damage caused by a weapon the
more it would be up in the list.
Like Bomb is the top most weapon in the game
and that’s why is has the top most rank
1.
Knife does the least damage so it is last
in  the list with 10th rank.
OK, So after weapon rank, we have  the Map location of player
who has taken  the kill.
It represents from which location the player
has taken the kill.
Now this much information of the player 1.
Relative to it next few columns hold the same
information of the player who got eliminated.
So its id, name, team id, team name,  weapon,
weapon rank, Map and
..
this column is
the total time for which both the
players were engaged before one was eliminated. This is in seconds.
Last column is timestamp of the event when
kill was taken.
Now from this data what are our
requirements.
Requirement 1 is that each player’s and
its corresponding team’s scores should get
incremented as soon as it is received, where
1 kill is equal to 1 score.
So basically whenever a player is taking a
shot, his personal score and his team’ score
should get incremented by 1.
Now requirement 2 is to Identify that a player
is master with which weapon.
By identifying the pattern of its kills and
using some certain parameters we have to identify
for every player in which he or she is more
skilled.
So apparently our grouping kill will be player
id and weapon.
and following  are the parameters which decides this .
Again we will follow that points technique.
For every kill a player has taken with a particular weapon, if the
battle_time  is between
10-20 then 4 points, if battle time is between
21-30 then 3 points, if battle time is between
31-40 then 2 points and if it is > 40
then 1 point.
Also the weapon raking is considerable here.
A player is no master if he is every time
taking a kill with bomb and the opponent has
a knife only.
So some conditions for that also.
If a player has taken a kill of his opponent having
a weapon of more ranking then less weightage
should be given.
More precisely, if the difference between
the weapon rank of killer and the weapon rank of opponent
is more than 6 ranks  then assign
3 points or if the difference is between 3
to 6 then 2 points, otherwise 1 point.
And the location also matters.
A person playing in map location A and is
having a knife killing its opponent in map
location B then it means he is really skilled
in that weapon so we should give more weightage
to it.
Hence, if the kill is taken in a different
Map location then assign 3 additional points.
And yes you also have to consider the number of times
player has used the weapon to find out the
average points.
So basically, what I want in my output is
the player’s average points per weapon. per game.
Based on those average points you can identify,
with which weapon the player is more skilled
in.
Now we have the set of parameters defined.
Let us find out who is more skilled in which
weapon.
So guys as a thought process what do you think,
what type of windows configuration should
be there, what type of triggers should be
used in this use case.
Halt here and  think over it.

--- Pipeline for incrementing scores ---

Okay, I hope you would have figured it.
See, Since we have to increment the scores
as soon as they arrive so definitely the windowing
trigger be AfterCount of 1 element to do this.
So we can use a global window with AfterCount
trigger.
But the same can not be done for identifying
the weapon skillful pattern.
For that either we have to  use a Fixed window
with some proces sing trigger but here I am
gonna use session windows to give the downstream
applications one more parameter of kill inactivity
to further refine their results.
I will use a session window per game.
So you see we have 2 windowing functions here
for which we need to create 2 separate data
pipelines.
Lets First create the scores counter.
This would be a very basic pipeline.
We just have to increment the counter to 1.
This is the code.
So this piece is the mandatory one.
We have already seen it quite a times.
In the pipeline part.
I am creating a general collection which will
behave as input for both player’s and team’s
counter.
I am reading from  pubsub splitting the
records on the basis of comma and also assigning the event timestamp
from the fields.
Then is the player_score pcollection which
is the individual player’s counter.
In this pcollection, Using Map transform, create key value pairs
with key as player id and value as 1.
Then configure a global window with aftercount
trigger.
Now guys theoretically it should be afterCount
trigger of 1 element to update the scores
as soon as they arrive but you know it is
not recommended.
Triggering a window after every 1 element
when the elements are in millions and that
too coming every millisecond would itself
be a bottleneck and our whole system may stuck.
So you have to do a trade-off in this.
As per your use case you have to identify
how much latency you can afford and set the
trigger count accordingly.
In our case,  for our users in their mobile
device, scores would show as the incremented
one in real-time using the device data, our
servers have no role in it.
Its not like that first the scores will reach
the servers, we will add them there and then
from servers the new scores are sent back
to device.
No, its not like that.
For players, the scores would be incremented
instantly as the kill is taken, our mobile
app has the capacity to do it.
So basically, it means that since our users
are seeing the updated results instantly so
we can afford a little latency to update the
results in our servers so that is why I have
kept this count to 10.
In fact this is still a very less count.
In real time this count would be hundreds
or even thousands.
Anyways so my after count trigger is set to
10 elements which shall trigger repeatedly
as soon as 10 elements accumulated in the
window pane.
The most important thing here would be the
accumulation mode.
Since we are adding up the scores so this
time the accumulation mode would be accumulating
so as to sum the previous triggered results.
After windowing, we have CombinePerkey and sum.
encode_byte_string method to convert the output
to strings.
At last, write it to a topic.
Anyhow I am going to show you the results in processing
script itself.
However, I would recommend you to create 2
separate topics here.
1 for player_score and 1 for team_score.
Player’s score is done.
Team_score is almost same.
You just have to replace the key as team id
instead of player id in Map method.
Let us try running it.
Good you can see the running scores of Players
and teams.
For every 10 elements of Player_ids and 10
elements of team_ids the scores are getting
added and emitted.

--- Pipeline to identify Player's skilled weapon ---

Now comes the turn for second pipeline.
Guys this is also simple one, only some if
else conditions, so I have pasted the full
code at once.
In the pipeline you see, read from Pub-sub
then split it, then  assign
event timestamp and then Map transform to calculate
the points according to our conditions.
I am taking the example of this input row.
This is the map method.
Initially total points is 0.
Game id is 1st element.
Player id is 2nd element.
Weapon is 6th element.
My _weapon_ranking is the killer’s weapon
rank.
Opponents weapon ranking.
Killers_Map location, Opponents  _map_location and this is
the battle time.
All the required variables are taken.
Now according to our requirements,
If battle time is  between 10 to 20 then assign 4
points, if  it is between 20 to 30 then
3 points.
31 to 40, 2 points, more than 40
is 1 point.
Then check the weapon ranking conditions.
First I am calculating the difference between the both if the difference is more than 6 , then add 3 points.
else if it is between 3 to 6, then add 2 points.
Otherwise add 1 point.
Last is map check location.
If the player’s map location is not equal
to opponent, then add 3 additional points.
Checks are done.
As return statement, return game_id, player_id, and weapon as key  and the total points as value.
Now window configuration before we group the
elements.
Sorry, this should not be here
Ok so we had already identified that our windows
will be session window.
And I am keeping the timings of session window as 30 seconds,
for every key, window will emit result after
30 seconds of inactivity.
After windowing, we can group the data.
This time since we have to calculate the average,
so we have to implement our own combiner. This is the pointFn class.
It is same as we did it in the combiner lecture.
If you want, you can go back and again have
a look at that lecture.
In short, we are overriding the 4 methods
of CombineFn class.
Initiating the accumulator, I am initiating to 00 add_input to add
the incoming values and also incrementing
the counter by 1 for every record.
Merge_accumualtor will do the sum of individual
sums and individual counts.
Extract_output will divide both to return
the average points.
So the thing is combinePerkey transform is
going to return us the average points of per
game,player and weapon which is our desired
result.
To finish off the pipeline, format the results,
encode to byte string and finally write to a pubsub
topic.
Guys for your information, in all our streaming
examples, we were either using a topic to
store the results or to see the output printing
it in the script itself but in real time we
don’t deal with the outputs like this.
Yeah, we can store the output in a topic but
usually they are stored in some concrete storages
like Big table, big query from where the downstream
applications like any BI tool can access it
properly.
Great, our pipeline is build.
Let us run it.
And let me reduce my efforts and use the pubsub
timestamp instead of this.
..
Data is getting published.
..
This time since our key was composite of 3
fields so you may see frequent outputs.
All right. We have started getting the data. Now guys, you can collect all  our  inputs in a topic  and then on top of that add 1 small python program
to add up all the average points for a player
per weapon and then  decide the weapon in which
he is skilled in.
So guys that’s it.
We have successfully build and implemented
our mobile game case study.
Kudos.

--- Create Pipeline with Options ---

Hi Guys, so we are done with mostly all of
the Beam concepts which are available at this
time.
And we are left with the runners part i.e.
how to run a Beam pipeline on any of the execution
engines available.
In this section we are going to finish it
too.
So from the start itself I was mentioning
that the core idea of Beam is to provide a
unified and portable Big data processing pipelines.
Its unified nature we have already seen by
building the batch and streaming pipelines
with a single API.
Now the portable thing i.e. once build, beam
pipelines can be run on any engine.
Till now whatever pipeline we ran, we have
run it on local runner.
Be it on google’s local machine or our own
system.
In this section, I will explain how to run
the same Beam pipeline on Dataflow which is
an integral engine in GCP.
Undoubtably, few additional parameters would
be required corresponding to GCP environment,
but our data processing code will be same,
there will be no code change in the actual
pipeline.
Please understand that whatever pipelines
we have build so far they were not generic
in nature and can’t be taken anywhere to
run.
We specifically build it for running them
in a local system but relax and don’t get
shocked as there is only a small addition
in the code to make it generic.
So let us first look into what are the configurations
that we need to make in the code to make it
a generic one or I would say, ideally how should
we configure a generic Beam pipeline for production
runs.
Basically, when you create your Pipeline,
you can also set some configuration options
associated with it such as the pipeline runner
which is going to execute your pipeline and
then any runner-specific configuration required
by the chosen runner etc these things.
No doubt, You can set your pipeline’s configuration
options programmatically by hardcoding it,
but it’s often advisable to have them read
from the command line and then pass it to
the Pipeline object.
So If we can build a pipeline that takes the runner information, those input-output file paths information
from the command line, then our problem
is solved and we can say we got a generic
pipeline.
Let us now see how exactly to configure a
pipeline with options.
I am reusing our good old attendance count
example.
Adding in the same code,.. first of all import
some pipeline_options related packages.
And then instead of this normal pipeline,
create a pipeline using a PipelineOptions
object.
I am using this class PipelineOptions
to create pipeline.
Building your Pipeline this way, lets you
specify any of the options defined in PipelineOptions
class as a command-line argument which will
then internally passed to pipeline.
Out of all the options, the basic options
that generally we pass is the runner type,
a temporary location which is a pipeline level
default location for storing temporary files,
and we can set the job name too.
This much is enough but to make it perfectly
portable pipeline, we should pass the input
and output files location too from command
line right?,.
See, as of now it is hardcoded to a local machine
location.
To make this a generic pipeline which can
be run on any engine we should remove this
hardcoding and have it passed through command
line while submitting the job’s run command.
In this way input and output paths can be
provided from any local, hdfs, gfs, any location
without changing the code.
This is possible as, In addition to the standard
PipelineOptions, Beam allows us to even add
our own custom options.
So we can add 2 more options for input and
output file locations.
For that first of all I will
Import argparse, this is the python library
to support command line arguments and then
Creating a object parser of that argparse library.
After it using its add argument method, describe
the arguments which will be passed in CLI.
I am adding 2 arguments here.
Each for input and output file.
This is the name of argument, should use this
argument in run command to pass the input
file location.
Then in our code, the same argument can be
retrieved with this name.
True means, this is a mandatory argument and
should be provided while running this code.
and help is what description it will show
if you use -h command.
Same is done for output argument.
Once you have passed the arguments in CLI,
you have to retrieve it from there and use
it in the code.
For that I am parsing the passed arguments
and storing them into 2 objects.
path_args and pipeline_args.
Where pipeline_args will hold the environment
related arguments like runner type, job name,
temp locations etc. path_args will hold 2
arguments i.e. input and output.
To use the input, output locations in pipeline,
get it like this.
Like I mentioned to retrieve the argument
values in code, we would use these names,
input and output so input_pattern = path_args.input
And output_pattern = path_args.output.
Now use these variables in logic.
And we are done.
So guys as you can see, now we have created
a portable pipeline with Options.
You can run it on which ever engine you want
without any further change in the code.
In the command line while you run it, you
have to specify the options like runner name,
temp file locations, may be a project id
Along with this also pass input and output
file paths.
And I am going to run it on GCP’s Dataflow
in next lecture.

--- Deploy it on GCP (Dataflow) ---

So guys, to run our Beam pipeline we will
take leverage of Google’s Dataflow quickstart
where an app can be deployed within a few
clicks.
Just enable some APIs and run the pipeline.
Simple.
This is the step by step by guide provided
by google to do so.
I will follow this guide to deploy my pipeline
in GCP dataflow.
I am giving its link in resources tab.
Please go and check.
Okay,  first of all before proceeding,  you should be signed in your Gmail account, I am already signed in.
and then go to the Project selector page.
If you have not created any project then create a new one otherwise select the already created.
We have already created beam  project .
2nd step is to enable the APIs.
These are the  default APIs which will get enabled.
You may need to en query, cloud datastore
in the pipeline.
But as of now, we do not need them. It may take few seconds. Meanwhile, i will go back.
Yup, the apis got enabled.
Now is the turn to create service account
key for project owner.
Remember this time, we need to provide the
project owner authorization to service key.
Again I will alert you to keep it in very
safe place.
This time it has the project owner permissions,
means access to everything in the project.
Anyways, next step is to set the path of our
authentication file in this variable.
Earlier while running streaming pipelines
we used to set this variable in code but since
this time I have made my pipeline a generic one so we have to set this variable outside it.
You should set it in the environment.
Open anaconda command prompt.
Now is the time to upload our file to
cloud’s bucket.
GCP store files in buckets.
So go to this link anddd create a bucket.
I have already created this bucket.
For you I will create a new bucket.
Give it a unique name.
It accepts only small case letters, numbers
and some special characters.
Please Do not include any sensitive information
in the bucket name as the bucket namespace
is global and publicly visible.
I will create 1 more bucket for temporary files.
Alright, next step would be to run our pipeline.
We have many options to run it from.
Either you can run it from cloud shell, which
you can access via this link.
Or you can also provide the run command from
your system in which has beam installed.
Go to Anaconda, where your pipeline is present.
This would be my run command with proper options.
1st option is the input file location.
My input file is in gcp bucket so the path
should be bucket name/ file name.
Same like this output file.
Then definitely a runner name.
ours would be dataflowrunner.
Next argument is the project name.
then is the gcp location where dataflow will
create its temporary files.
All arguments are mandatory in our case.
Now run it.
Yup it started.
This is just a note stating Python 2 deprecation
from jan 2020.
Let us go to the UI side to see the DAG and
job details.
This is the direct link for it
The pipeline is separated into tasks in the
graph.
Few of them are in running state.
Some are partly running and not started.
Also, you can see how many workers are running
for your pipeline.
What is the configuration of system whihc it using for your pipeline.
And yes, Please understand that even though
our dataset is small, the job may a take a
little extra time to complete than local because
you know it takes time to assign workers and
provide the Beam environment to our job.
I will skip this video to the point where
the job had run.
so our job has run successfully.
To see the output, go to bucket.
Yup it has created the outputs directory and
the result is also present in 3 files.
To view it.
Yeah we have desired result.
So guys this is it.
We successfully created a generic Beam pipeline
and ran it on Cloud dataflow.
If you have any other cluster with you, you
can try running on that too but obviously
newer Beam supported versions and few setups
would be required in that cluster.
Thankyou.

--- Introduction ---

Welcome, guys, to this updated lecture of the course where you are going to learn how to write data
into BigQuery tables.
You all might know that BigQuery is a fully managed serverless, highly scalable and cost effective
cloud data warehouse designed for business agility.
It is Google Cloud Platforms, Enterprise Data warehouse for analytics, which can easily store exabytes
of data.
BigQuery comes with a built in Dremel engine, which is capable of running SQL queries on terabytes
of data in a matter of seconds and petabytes within minutes.
BigQuery is an important component while designing end to end data pipelines.
So if this is the big data service paradigm of data processing pipelines in GCP.
Then BigQuery, if you see, is mainly used as a sync for transform data and source to the reporting
layer.
It takes process data from the processing layer that is the output of data flow or data proc and stored
it.
And now on the store data, you can perform real time analysis or on machine learning models to generate
insights or can directly generate reports.
Create dashboards using the visualization services.
If you want to learn a little more about this paradigm, then I've attached a full lecture in this course.
It will give you a good idea of big data related services of GCP through which we can create end to
end data processing and reporting pipelines.
Anyhow, now coming back to our original point, how to load data into BigQuery from Apache Beam Code.
Let us see it via an example.
The example which I'm demonstrating here is a small part taken out from a full client case study explained
in my BigQuery course.
So this is the data.
It is a daily transactional data of an online food ordering app.
Column description is in the header if you want to check.
Now for this data, my requirement is to clean, transform this data and load it into a BigQuery table.
And as part of Apache Beam code.
I will be using the same boilerplate code which was just explained in the previous section.
Uh, since there is no output file, so I will change it with table.
And also import an additional BigQuery package.
Let me now quickly paste the transformations to.
I'm not much concerned about them because my only focus will be to show you the big part.
Anyways, these are simple only.
Read the input file while skipping the header row, then use a map transform to make the rows in lowercase.
Remove special characters from the rows using this function.
It is defined here.
Then one more map transform, which is just embedding a one in the data.
It basically takes an input row and outputs row.
Comma one.
That's it.
So the thing till this step is that this clean data is a P collection ready to be loaded in BigQuery.
Let's start adding the right to BigQuery code from next lecture.

--- Create BigQuery Dataset ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
First of all construct a bigquery client object.
This Client object is the one that act as
interface and manages connections to the BigQuery
API.
This is an important class to understand as
it contains all the important methods of creating
dataset, creating table, listing anything,
etc all the important operations are present
as methods in this class.
I have attached the link to full list of its
methods in the resources tab of this lecture
for your convenience
Now create a dataset.
If you are unfamiliar with bigquery, let me
tell you that, in Bigquery data is not directly
stored into tables rather we have one more
component called Dataset which sits one hierarchical
level above the table, means first we will
have a dataset, inside which we can have any
number of tables or views.
Datasets are top-level containers that are
used to organize and control access to your
tables and views.
Dataset basically contains metadata about
your tables like in which zone the tables
are stored, their retention period, encryption
keys and all.
A table or view must belong to a dataset,
so you need to create at least one dataset
before loading data into BigQuery.
To create a dataset using Python reference.
Let me first define the dataset name.
Now construct a full Dataset Object to send to the API.
so this dataset is a dataset object containing
all the references of food_orders dataset.
Set the dataset location using location attribute
Set its description using description attribute.
Now guys if you wish to specify other attributes
like its expiration time, labels, default
partition expiration time, etc can be set
using the corresponding attribute.
I am attaching a link in resources tab for
the list of available attributes.
At last to create the dataset, make an API
request with an explicit timeout.
create_dataset is the method used for it.
pass the dataset object that we created above.
Enough
Dataset creation code is done till this part
and next is the turn to create tables in this
dataset.

--- Create and Load BigQuery Table ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
To create and load bigquery tables, Beam has
a dedicated library.
From Beam’s io package you can use WriteToBigQuery
transform or sink you can say.
This transform can create a table in bigquery
while loading a pcollection in it.
It takes table_name, its schema, create_disposition,
write_disposition and some additional things
like partitioning or clustering as parameters.
An important thing to note in this transform
is that it takes input as json.
The cleaned_data pcollection what we have
right now is in csv format but this class
takes input as json so we can’t simply apply
writeToBigquery transform to our pcollection,
we need to convert them to json.
So what I will do is.
On cleaned_data, apply a Map transform with
to_json functionality and then writeToBigquery()
Now this function, define it above.
This function will take an input row from
cleaned_data pcollection, split it on basis of comma delimiter and returns
a json string where each field of json points
to each element of the split array.
I hope you understand.
Proceeding next would be providing the arguments
to this writeToBigquery transform.
First would be table name, which
I am getting from run command.
It would be in a full format of - project
name.dataset name.table name
Then is the schema for the table.
Schema = table_schema and define the table_schema
here.
Keep in mind to provide the same schema as
your json.
Next in the argument is create_disposition, we have BigqueryDisposition
class that holds standard strings used for
create and write dispositions.
Mine would be create_if_needed.
Create_if_needed won’t throw already exists
error when the pipeline is re-run.
It will create only if the table is not present.
Next is write disposition, same class only
the value will change to WRITE_APPEND.
There can be another values to create and
write dispositions like CREATE_NEVER, WRITE_TRUNCATE
and WRITE_EMPTY.
I am attaching the link of beam’s io package
if you wish to dig more into it.
Last is additional parameters using which
you can create a partitioned or clustered
table.
Let our table be an ingestion time based partitioned
table on DAY basis.
So write  additional_bq_paramters
This is enough to create a table.
Lastly, to run this pipeline, you can use
run method p.run() as we were doing it all
along, but you know doing this we would never
get any success or fail message.
So as an optional extension to the code, for
user convenience, I will replace it with these
few lines, from beam’s runner library import
PipelineState, as the name is suggesting this
holds all the information to whatever state
a pipeline is in.
Storing the p.run result in an object.
If the value of state in the returned object
is DONE then it means pipeline ran successfully
so print success otherwise print Error message.
Guys I have very easily passed an error message
if the state is not DONE but that is not 100%
accurate because there are many states a job
can be in.
NOT Done doesn’t mean it has failed.
The other states it can be in are STARTING,
STOPPED, RUNNING, UPDATED and there are few
others.
But as of now for learning purposes we can
live with this.
The whole code got completed, its time to
run it now.
now to run this,, let me directly run
it on cloud shell only. Upload the file to cloud.
Code is uploaded and the input file is already
present in the cloud storage bucket.
I will use that location.
And yess, before running you need to install
apache Beam package in cloud shell.
For that you run pip install apache-beam[gcp]
or as a safe side install the whole beam package
pip install apache-beam.
Mine is already installed.
Also this time I won’t need to provide any
service account key as I am running from my
own account’s shell only
So the command will be
Run it.
Great pipeline ran successfully and we will
see the results in next lecture.

--- View loaded Table in BigQuery ---

To see the results, you have to go to BigQuery service.
I'm already in it.
And this is the BigQuery dashboard to run at all queries.
Mainly it is used by business analyst who run adult queries to do some analysis on the data.
All those data set creation, table creation, copy drop, etc. operations can be performed from this
dashboard.
Explaining everything right now will be off that rack anyways in the resources.
If you see you have a list of paint projects, expand it.
And voila, we have the dataset created in it.
Inside it.
Yep.
The table is also there.
Click on it.
This is the schema of table.
It is listed here.
Go to details section.
Number of rows loaded is 891 table size table location would obviously be data set location.
Then it is a partition table.
This partition time here means it is an ingestion time partition table on databases.
All the data loaded in today's date will fall under one partition if you would have specified are instead
of day in the time partitioning field, then you will have a per partition.
All the data loaded within an hour would be stored in a single partition.
Then next is this preview.
This is important.
BigQuery allows you to preview the data firsthand.
It is like select start from table limit some number.
But the best part is where select start will charge you some bugs.
This preview does not charge you anything, so it is recommended that if you wish to see only the glimpse
of table, then don't run select star limit query as it is chargeable.
Instead, use this non chargeable preview option.
And I can see that the data has been transformed and loaded perfectly in BigQuery table.
All right.
So, yes, I guess that's it for writing a collection of your beam pipeline to BigQuery tables.
Thank you.

--- Batch Vs Stream Processing ---

Kind: captions
Language: en
In the first lecture we learn that flink is a stream processing engine and also does batch processing.
But what is this stream and batch processing some of you might be knowing about these two.
And also the differences between them but for others let us understand
What are these two types of processing and the difference between them.
In batch processing model a set of data is first  collected over a period of time and then fed to the processing
engine in one shot.
Like we keep on collecting the daily transactions data for a month and then after one month the whole
data is pushed for processing.
This even can be called a single batch processed. In stream processing
we don't collect the data but rather feed the data to a processing engine as soon as it is generated.
It depends on the time window as and when  the data is arriving. Whenever the data arrives,
It is directly processed to the processing engine, This processing is also called a realtime processing.
Keeping in mind the first point we can conclude that batch processing is used where we need access to
all the data.
For example if a company wants to know that after giving discount in a particular month how much sales
got increased.
Obviously to do this we need two months of data before discount months and after discounted months data.
One more use case of  batch processing is generating insights from data, like by analyzing a year transactions
of a bank, a bank can  find out its loyal customers.
Or we can say permanent customers.  This insight can help in decision making process like giving some
special offers to those customers etc.
Whereas stream processing is used where we need to do analytics in real time.
One very perfect use case of stream processing is fraud detection.
When we stream process the transaction data, we can detect anomalies in it and then signaling or flagging
a transaction. In this way we can stop those transactions before they are completed.
One more case is doing sentiment analysis of social feeds like Twitter Facebook etc. where the companies
are continuously monitoring social websites to learn what customers are saying about them and take necessary
actions accordingly in real time.
Now moving next,
talking about the job time. A batch job is run on regular intervals of time or on-demand.
Like for a job it needs daily data, then
the job will run every day or like in the above example where we needed to see the change in number
of sales of two months then that job
Obviously will run after two months, as it has to accumulate  the data for those two months.
Also a batch job has a bounded or we can say pre-known data  as prior to  processing
We know how much data is being fed to the processing engine. A streaming job runs continuously
Whenever there is a data available. So our app needs to be up and running continuously as long as we
are receiving data stream and the data in stream processing is unbounded and unknown.
It might receive GBs of data and some point of time and few MBs of data at some other time.
In batch processing, we are more concerned with throughput than latency, where throughput is the quantity of
data processed in a given amount of time and latency is the time required to process a given amount
of data.
So when dealing with large batches of data we are less concerned with how much time it takes to give
us results.
We are concerned with the amount of data it can process i.e. throughput. In  stream processing,
Latency is more concern than throughput.
Obviously, when we have to make decisions based on real time data then our data
should get processed as fast as possible.
Hence latency should be less in streaming model.
So in the end, if we have to categorize our big data processing engines we can do like this.
Hadoop is suited for batch processing and Spark and flink are suited for stream processing. No doubt,
they both can also do batch processing but are famous  and mainly used for stream processing.
So these were some of the differences between batch stream processing.
See you in next video.
