

=== Course Orientation ===


--- Welcome To The Course! ---

Colt: Hey everyone, me and some of my
stock asset friends here
are very happy to welcome you to the Git
and GitHub bootcamp.
So none of these people are my real friends,
but they are free images from my slide software,
which is pretty good too
and they'll be making some appearances
throughout the course in my diagrams.
Anyway, none of these fine folks are actually me.
This is me here.
Hello everyone.
My name is Colt Steele.
I never know how much detail to go into in my background,
but I'll say that I've been teaching people how to program
for almost a decade.
I've helped thousands of people change careers
in my in-person bootcamps,
but I've also reached over a million students online.
Ugh, I always feel a bit weird talking about it,
but you can always check out my LinkedIn
or my instructor bio if you want more information.
All that really matters
is that I actually really enjoy teaching Git.
It's a challenging thing to teach
and it's a creative challenge for the teacher.
So I hope you enjoy the course.
I've spent a lot of time trying to make it
the best possible Git course.
So if you're watching this, you probably already know
that Git is this amazing, universal,
widespread tool that, along with GitHub, enables
and empowers millions and millions of users
and companies ranging from tiny startups all the way up
to Fortune 50 companies, to build things together,
to collaborate and to maintain applications.
So you probably already know that
and a lot of people know it.
They know it's crucial, yet it often goes ignored.
It's not the most glamorous topic to learn at the beginning.
I totally get why a lot
of people prioritize learning JavaScript or CSS
or Python or pretty much anything over Git.
But the truth is, this is a very annoying expression
that the best time to learn Git is yesterday.
Somebody told me something very similar,
a neighbor actually, about how the best time
to plant fruit trees is five years ago.
When you hear something like that,
it's natural to want to punch that person,
strangle them, or maybe just roll your eyes.
But there is some truth to this,
but also there's another piece to that sentence.
The second best time to learn Git is now
the second best time to plant fruit trees is today.
Probably the second best time to plant fruit trees,
it was four years ago.
Anyway, the point is that it's very important to try
and learn Git as soon as possible
along whatever journey you're on.
The sooner you learn it, the better, because it's not just
about learning some syntax that takes some time,
but you know, you can watch a video or a course
or read a book and and learn the basics,
but it takes more work.
There's more than just learning the basic syntax.
The real work comes with part two
or what I'm calling step two,
actually living as a Git user and breathing Git.
It needs to become second nature.
Git becomes a fundamental part of your workflow.
So that takes time, right?
That's why the best time to learn Git is yesterday,
blah, blah, blah.
But also, that's the goal of this course, to help Git
become second nature.
So not just to teach you the basics,
it's also helping you just learn and live Git,
breathe Git in as a user and that takes time
and it takes practice.
So that's why this course is more
than just a bunch of lectures, although it's a ton
of lectures, obviously I can't get around that.
That is one of the core pieces of the course.
It has to be educational.
There's going to be that explaining the syntax
and demonstrating how things work.
But also there are quite a few exercises that I built to try
and force you to get practice, to try
and sort of steer you towards becoming one with Git.
So I highly recommend you do those.
I'll point them out in a separate video.
I wanna talk about some strategies for them.
I also tried to make it somewhat interesting
and entertaining, but also visually,
I spent way too much time, I think, making diagrams
and Git is something that I think benefits a lot
from thinking about in a visual way.
So I spent a lot of time making these diagrams.
I hope you appreciate them.
And I guess that's really all I have to say right now.
Welcome to the course, everyone.
I hope you enjoy it.
And I'll end this welcome video
with one not-at-all important note.
In my courses, I often reference my pet chickens
throughout my courses.
I'll use their names in different files or in exercises,
in diagrams, and students inevitably demand photos
or videos of my chickens.
So I'm just gonna get it out of the way here.
If you wanna see them, here they are.
All right, so we'll go ahead and get started.
Once again, welcome and I hope you enjoy the course.

--- Join Our Community! ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Introducing...Git! ===


--- What The Course Covers ---

Instructor: So next up, I'd like to talk about
the course curriculum and what we cover.
And I'll try to break it down into some smaller pieces,
because on the surface we cover quite a few topics
related to Git and GitHub.
So there's always a pressure, honestly, in these courses
to fit as many related topics as possible into a course
just to compete or to stand out in some way.
And, yeah, I can't ignore that,
but I do wanna try my best to make it very clear
what actually matters and what is fundamental.
Because not all of this stuff you see in front of you,
and there's likely to be more
by the time you're actually watching this,
there will be more videos or more additional sections
added towards the end because students request them.
But anyway, not all of these are critical.
So there's a couple of chunks, I guess,
that I would break things down into.
The first bit is all about the core functionality of Git.
Working with the very, very basics.
Things like adding and committing,
and creating repositories, git log, git status,
creating branches, checking out, switching, merging.
That is your core Git toolbox.
And then we talked about, I'm calling it Next Level Git,
but it's not crazy difficult stuff.
It's just a couple of Git topics
that won't come up as often.
They're not part of your day-to-day Git life,
but they still are very important.
So we talk about diff-ing, the git diff command, stashing.
And then we talk about quite a few ways
of time traveling in Git, or undoing changes.
Git revert, git reset, git restore,
undoing changes, and going back to old work
and detaching and reattaching the head.
And there's quite a bit of stuff in that section.
So it's important, but it's just not part of this Git core.
Then we move on to GitHub and collaboration.
So I've grouped together four sections here.
I don't really have a nice title for it,
but we basically learn about the basics of GitHub,
working with GitHub, getting our code up on GitHub,
getting stuff down from GitHub.
We talk about things like GitHub pages and GitHub gists,
and collaboration workflows.
That's a very significant chunk of this course.
We spend a lot of time on that,
talking about the different ways
that you could use Git with a team to collaborate,
along with GitHub, and different structures,
different strategies you can employ.
There's not just one way.
And they all have some certain strengths and weaknesses.
So I demonstrate those
and spend a lot of time talking about it.
It's pretty important stuff.
So I've grouped that together with GitHub.
And then after that, it's kind of just a mixture
of other Git stuff that I felt compelled to include.
And these are some of the more advanced topics
or the niche topics.
So this includes things like rebasing,
cleaning up your Git history with interactive rebasing,
squashing, dropping, fixing up.
All sorts of fun parts, in my opinion.
We talk about tags.
We talk about how Git works behind the scenes and hashing.
We cover things like git objects, git blobs, git trees.
So there's stuff in here
that you could go your whole life as a get user
without knowing.
I think it's worth giving you the option, at least,
to check it out if you're curious.
We talk about creating custom aliases
and shortcuts and ref logs.
That's a fun one.
I'm happy with how that section turned out.
And as I said, there's likely to be more.
If you scroll down right now through the curriculum,
there's likely more content in the course
that's not included here.
So to recap this, there's quite a bit,
and it's all Git and GitHub oriented.
But there's this first chunk
that is the core of Git on its own.
Then we talk about some next level Git topics
that are absolutely important to know,
but they're not part of your typical hour-to-hour
or day-to-day use case for Git, or they might not be.
And then we talk about GitHub and collaboration workflows.
And then it's just a bunch of other Git related topics
at the end that I had a lot of fun recording.
Okay, so let's get started.


=== Installation & Setup ===


--- A Note On The Exercises ---

Instructor: Next up, I'd like to talk a little bit
about the exercises in the course.
A very important piece, easy to overlook as a student
but I think are very important
to really understanding and living and breathing Git.
You have to practice it.
It's not just the syntax.
So throughout the course, there are exercises sprinkled in,
and I have to be honest,
creating these exercises is not always that easy because
unlike other things that I teach, CSS or JavaScript
or Python, where I can ask students to make something
and very clearly set out, you know
here are the expectations.
Make this thing.
With Git, it's not really about making things,
it's about the workflows.
So I had to get pretty creative
and I tried my best to come up with exercises.
I'm pretty happy with how they turned out.
I just wanna show you where to find them
and the basics of how they work.
So the exercises are at the end of sections.
So for example, this is a section intro to GitHub.
The very last video is GitHub Basics exercise
or here's undoing changes in history.
The last video is undoing changes exercise.
So there are videos where I explain the exercise.
I may mute this here
so I explain how it works and what I'm expecting you to do
and then I go ahead and do it myself, sort of a solution.
But I always recommend you try it yourself first.
And then if you want the actual exercise document,
for every single one of these in resources,
you'll find a link, click it, and it will take you
to the exercise document that I created.
So it has the instructions, the different files.
There might be some starter code
that I give you, the different expectations step-by-step
what I'm asking you to do.
So one of these documents exists
for every exercise in the course
and you'll find it attached to the exercise video.
So that's where you can find them.
Again, I hope that you get something out of them.
The only way you'll know is if you actually attempt them.
So I really encourage you to do this in person.
When I teach Git the most learning
without a doubt happens when students actually
try using it and just get practice.
It's a weird thing to watch somebody use Git.
You really need to do it yourself to get anything out of it.
Anyway, I hope you enjoy the exercises.
That's how you find them.
Please do them.


=== The Very Basics Of Git: Adding & Committing ===


--- Accessing The Slides & Diagrams ---

Instructor: One more quick note about the course.
I made a lot of diagrams and slides
and I'm sure some of you will want access to them yourself.
You can find the slides for every single section
that has them, which is pretty much every section,
attached to the first video.
So the very first video in each section
is always titled What Really Matters in This Section,
and it's a video where I walk through
the different topics that I cover
and I sort them into critical, important, and nice to have,
and just give you a heads up about,
don't stress about this and do worry about this.
So attached to each one of those videos
at the beginning of a section,
there's a resource that says slides for this section.
So you'll see that here, here's the installation slides
and you have access to them, The different commands,
and the same holds true for all of the different sections.
So if you wanna learn more about the slides
for working with GitHub, go to that first video
in the section, slides in the resources, and here you are.
Okay. So that's all I want to say.
First video of every section,
I explain what matters in that section,
but also that's where you find the slides
for the rest of that section.


=== Commits In Detail (And Related Topics) ===


--- IMPORTANT NOTE: About The Slides Links ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]


=== Working With Branches ===


--- What Really Matters In This Section ---

Instructor: Hey, welcome, everyone.
At the beginning of every section,
I'll have a video similar to this one,
where I talk about what actually matters in the section.
So I try to keep them brief.
I just wanna highlight of all the topics we cover,
you know, what really is worth your time
and stress to try and get right
versus what could you circle back to later.
So I'll use this Trello board I've made
for all the topics in this course,
and I'll go through the main topics in this section,
which is just an introduction to Git,
nothing very well, nothing technical really at all.
We're just gonna cover some important conceptual topics.
So all these topics are labeled as green,
meaning that they're pretty easy to pick up.
Some of the other topics later on are
a bit more challenging,
but we're gonna talk about what is Git.
I would say that is probably critical,
understanding the difference
between Git and GitHub, critical,
understanding the history of Git,
not critical to using and working with Git.
There's a video about who uses Git, different use cases.
It's not just engineers these days,
governments, scientists, writers.
So, eh, I'll say important, on the verge with nice to have.
I wouldn't really spend a lot of time on it.
What does Git do for us?
That is also going to be critical.
We need to understand the purpose of Git
before we actually learn the commands.
So that's pretty much it for this section and what matters.
The main takeaways, focus on what is Git,
what is Git compared to GitHub,
and what exactly does Git do for us?
Okay, let's go.


=== Merging Branches, Oh Boy! ===


--- What Exactly Is Git? ---

Instructor: Okay, so let's begin
with a very important question.
What exactly is Git?
So Git is what's known as a version control system,
sometimes abbreviated as VCS.
Not only is it a VCS, it's actually the world's most popular
version control system.
So what exactly is a version control system?
It doesn't sound all that glamorous.
Essentially, version control is software that helps track
and manage changes to a set of files over time.
Also doesn't sound all that glamorous or exciting,
but hugely important.
Think of companies like Facebook or Google
with huge code bases, thousands of files
and thousands of developers.
They're all working in parallel
and making changes day-to-day.
How do you manage those and track those changes
and combine them and undo changes?
That is the role of a version control system like Git.
In general, most version control systems allow things
like revisiting earlier versions of files,
comparing changes made between different versions
and different files, undoing changes,
sharing changes with other people.
Git does this and more.
We're gonna go into this in just a little bit,
but that's a general intro to this concept
of version control.
And to be clear, GIT is just one
of many version control options out there.
Over the years, they've kind of come and gone,
but some of the more well-known ones include Subversion,
CVS, and Mercurial.
And they all have similar goals of helping developers
or helping users track changes to projects over time.
But they do have significant differences in how
they operate the syntax and how they achieve those goals.
But the good news for us,
I mean, obviously, this is a Git course,
so we're gonna learn Git,
but there's a good reason to learn Git.
It is the clear winner.
If there ever was a version control system war,
Git is clearly the most popular these days.
This is the most recent data I could find
from three years ago,
2018 Stack Overflow developer survey.
Nearly 90% of respondents reported
that Git was their version control system of choice.
And the thing is, in the last few years,
this survey has just stopped asking this question.
It's abandoned it because it's just so clear.
The number is probably more like 95% these days
of developers that use Git.
So we're here to learn Git.
That's good news for us.
I'll end by just showing you what Git calls itself
on the Git homepage.
It's a free and open source distributed
version control system designed to handle everything
from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency.
It's easy to learn.
We'll see about that.
It's not bad to learn, but I wouldn't say it's painless,
and it has a tiny footprint with lightning-fast performance.
It outclass other tools like Subversion, CVS.
Oh boy, look at that, trash talking the competition.
Anyway, the stuff we care about is up here.
It is a version control system, that is Git at its core.
It helps users manage changes to projects over time.
In the next video, we'll talk in more concrete terms
about what Git actually does.


=== Comparing Changes With Git Diff ===


--- Visualizing Git ---

Instructor: So now that we know that Git
is a version control system, a popular one at that,
let's talk more about the specific features.
What does it do for us?
So in this slide, we can see some
of the main things Git helps us with.
It helps track changes across files, compare versions
of a project, time travel back to old versions,
take a peek at what something looks like a year ago.
Take a look at Facebook's code base today
compared to two days ago,
go back to a previous version
if we mess something up,
combine different changes between versions,
between different files, between different collaborators,
and that's probably the most important part,
collaborate and share changes.
Git facilitates collaboration
between a team of users, of developers, of writers,
whatever people are doing with Git.
Git facilitates collaboration
and sharing those changes between individual people.
So here's a very, very simple explanation.
If you've ever played video games, like I have,
there are some games that allow you to make save points.
Little checkpoints you can come back to,
and I guess this is supposed to be me.
I was always very, very nervous as a game player.
Some of the games I played as a kid where if you died,
you would go all the way back
to wherever your last save was.
So I would always try and save before, well,
pretty much before anything.
So I would save and then get to some horrible boss battle.
I suck at video games, even though I like them.
I die.
But that's okay.
I don't get angry.
Because I saved my game,
I can just go back to that save point.
That is the simplest, simplest explanation of Git
and what it allows us to do, set up these checkpoints.
You can screw things up entirely,
make a huge mess of a code base or of a project.
Empty all the files out, delete the files.
But if you're using Git and you made these checkpoints,
we can just go back.
So here's another explanation that I've used.
In high school and college, I had to write a lot of essays.
I did not know Git really at the time.
So I did this.
I would start writing an essay
and then I wanted to try something new.
So I'd Save As, I'd make a new version that was v1
or v2, or even more variations.
V2 with a new intro or a new conclusion or reorder,
all sorts of different strategies.
And I would save all of them
because I wanted to be able to compare.
I didn't wanna just have one essay
that I had to work in, right?
I wanna be able to track versions and compare
and it's just part of the process.
And then I would end up with some final,
but then inevitably, actually final, final for real.
This is the one, print this one.
This was honestly what I did in high school
and college all the time.
So Git helps with this sort of issue.
Now, this is a very trivial situation, but imagine thousands
of developers collaborating on a project
where they're working on millions of lines of code
all at the same time and having these different versions
and sharing and combining them.
So here's a somewhat more realistic example.
I'm working on some project, a website.
This is the progress of the website up top.
So right now, it's empty.
With Git, I create checkpoints.
So checkpoints are like save files I can go back to.
So I have my first checkpoint, Initialized Project.
There's nothing up there.
But then I do some work.
I add this navbar up top.
So I make a new checkpoint, Add Top Navbar.
Now I have two checkpoints, and then I do more work, right?
Some content.
So I add a new checkpoint.
We'll say Add First Row, whatever this is.
Maybe I'm making YouTube or something.
So I add some content and then I do more work.
I add more content, I add a new checkpoint.
This workflow is very, very common.
You do something in a project.
If you're using Git,
you make one of these so-called checkpoints.
We'll learn what they are and how you do it, of course.
And then you keep working.
So here, I change the theme entirely.
A dark theme, new fonts, new colors, new everything.
I add a checkpoint.
So I forgot to mention, I work not alone on this.
I'm working at a company.
I have a boss.
I'm not the one making these decisions, right?
What stays, if we want this theme or not,
or if we want this earlier theme here.
But anyway, I do some more work.
I alter the navbar color, I make it yellow.
I add a checkpoint, update navbar,
and then I show it to my boss.
Realistically, you don't just show code to your boss,
but there's a process for approving or rejecting changes.
But anyway, in this simplistic world, my boss gets angry,
or maybe not even angry, she just says, you know what?
These colors suck.
We can't move forward with that, but that's okay.
I use Git.
I have this series of checkpoints.
I can go back in time to earlier checkpoints.
So this is what it looked like at this checkpoint,
but I can go backwards too.
So from before the time I added the dark theme.
Now we're back to this light theme.
And then I could even branch off.
I could start working from this point and create a new sort
of fork where I can have an alternate timeline.
So this work's not lost, I'm just not doing it right now.
I'm working on a new version.
So I added more content, if you can see that there.
So I had two rows of content.
I add more content.
Now, I've picked up development at this point in time.
So I add a third row, maybe I add a new footer down there.
So we get a new checkpoint.
If I want to add a checkpoint then, and then,
I could switch back to what I had earlier.
At this point, I can toggle between them.
I can use Git to say go all the way back to when I first
added the navbar or go all the way up to
when I updated the navbar.
I made it yellow or go to Add Footer.
I can hop around and compare and I could present
both to my boss.
They both can exist, which is the crazy part.
Git helps us manage all of these different versions.
So I can switch back to this dark mode checkpoint,
but what's even crazier, I can even combine
these checkpoints,
the work that changes between the two.
So this dark mode had, you know, the dark colors
And Add Footer had all this extra content,
with a footer and a third row.
So I combined them to end up with a footer
and a third row of content and the dark mode colors.
So I now have a hybrid,
and that's exactly the sort of thing that Git helps us with.
Now, this is a simplified example,
but imagine now I'm working on a project.
It's not just me.
There's 10 people or a hundred developers,
lots of files, lots of versions.
How do we coordinate all those changes
between all of us and combine them, right?
We don't all just work on in silos on our own.
We need to combine that work back into some code base
at some point, or whatever we're working on,
we share those changes.
So it's this times hundreds and hundreds,
often at a large company.
Okay, so that's the basic idea
of Git and what it can help us with.
Just trying to visualize it for you.
Next up, I guess, totally optional.
I'm gonna talk about the history of Git.


=== The Ins and Outs of Stashing ===


--- A Quick History Of Git ---

Instructor: This video, like every video in the course,
I guess, is completely optional.
But this video in particular, I wanna focus on the history
of Git just for a couple of minutes.
It's kind of fascinating in my opinion,
but it's not super relevant to learning how to use Git.
So no big deal if you skip it, but let's do it,
let's talk about the creation of Git.
So there's a very famous developer named Linus Torvalds.
It's probably closer to Linus Torvalds,
but the Americanized version is Linus Torvalds.
He is truly a legendary engineer.
He's a creator, the main developer behind Linux,
but also Git.
So very prolific, very talented,
and he's always been very pro open-source projects,
meaning, if you're not familiar with the term code bases
that are available for others to see
and collaborate on and tweak
and try their own things with, instead of hiding code
behind some sort of paywall, making it all secret.
Anyway, at some point he was working on Linux with a team
and they were using a different version control system
called BitKeeper.
This is the Wikipedia page for Git.
So BitKeeper was a tool that did basically
what Git helps you do, manage versions.
However, at some point,
I guess there was a fight, a disagreement,
and the owners, the creators of BitKeeper
did not allow the Linux team to use it for free anymore.
They wanted to charge money.
They, I guess, removed the license.
So this was controversial.
It spurred the creation
of a couple of version control systems, including Mercurial.
But for our purposes,
what we care about is that Linus was frustrated,
he was -- off about that,
he wanted a free version control system
that had features that he desired,
and at the time, nothing fit that bill.
There were paid services that had those features
and there were free ones
that just didn't have the features he wanted.
So he wanted to make something fast and open-source,
and that's actually exactly what he did.
He just said, "Screw it, I'm gonna do it on my own,"
and he spent most of April, 2005,
just writing code to make it himself.
It's a very impressive effort.
So he was unhappy with the existing tools.
He got to work, he said, "I'll do it myself,"
and that turned into Git, in just a matter of days
he had the basic functionality done.
Now, that doesn't mean that it's a one-man show
and that he's in charge of Git to this day,
there have been many collaborators.
In fact, he handed over development of Git after,
I think maybe the first month or two
to some other developers anyway,
but basically he saw a need for a product
that didn't exist as a free open-source tool.
He created it himself, and now it's a huge hit,
everyone uses it, 15 years later,
over 90% of all developers worldwide use Git
on a daily basis.
Now, one interesting note is,
about the naming, the name Git.
In development, Linus Torvalds referred to Git
as "The stupid content tracker,"
just as his own personal name,
but eventually he settled on the name Git.
And according to the official source code for Git,
you can view this online,
there are a couple of explanations
for the meaning of the name Git, depending on your mood.
So it's either a random three letter combination
that is pronounceable, it's always good,
and not actually used by any common Unix command.
The second option of the meaning of Git
is stupid contemptible and despicable, simple.
Then we have Global Information Tracker.
That's the more corporate cleaned-up version,
Git, G-I-T, Global Information Tracker.
That's for when you're in a good mood
and it actually works for you.
Angels sing and a light suddenly fills the room,
and then when things break
and it doesn't work, (chuckles)
you can see it is gosh darn idiotic truckload
of you know what.
I always feel like such a goodie two shoes in these videos.
I don't wanna lead to any angry reviews
and commenters, but this isn't the source code.
I didn't put this in there myself.
That's in the official source for Git.
So the last note that I think is kind of funny,
in British slang, it means an unpleasant person,
and Linus Torvalds sarcastically quipped
that he actually named it after himself.
He said, "I'm an egotistical bastard
and I name all the projects after myself,
first Linux, like Linus, now git,"
joking that he's an unpleasant person.
Or maybe he's a gosh darn idiotic truckload of
you know what.
So just kind of a fun little bit of history.
It's always amazing when one person goes about
trying to solve a problem and they succeed.
And then it just becomes incredibly widely used
and widespread.
That's exactly what happened with Git.
It started with one guy hunkered down somewhere,
I mean, incredibly talented developer,
it's not just like me or you most likely, (chuckles)
but a very talented developer just taking on existing tools
and trying to improve upon them
with a free open-source tool that now is everywhere, okay.


=== Undoing Changes & Time Traveling ===


--- Who Uses Git? ---

Instructor: Next up, I'd like to talk about who uses Git.
This will be pretty quick as well, and optional.
You don't have to know about this in order to use it.
But the first most obvious group would be engineers,
developers, coders,
ranging from people who work on
their own little tiny side projects or just hobby projects,
entrepreneurs up to massive tech giants
like Facebook and Google.
Git is the most commonly used version control system
as we talked about.
And when you're developing applications,
version control is very, very important to use.
On Git's official homepage,
they list some of the companies that use it.
Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Twitter, LinkedIn, Netflix.
And then if you go to a website like StackShare,
where you can view,
I don't know how accurate StackShare is,
but you can view different tools
and companies that use them.
There's other companies like Robinhood, Reddit,
Lyft, StackShare itself uses Git.
Smaller companies, Patreon, Fiverr, Canva,
I use Canva all the time.
Massive companies like Walmart.
Anyway, the point is it's used by pretty much
any engineering team you can think of.
Also, another group that uses Git,
or at least would benefit from being familiar
with Git are tech adjacent roles.
So people who are not developers
but work with developers or deal with developers,
learning the basics of Git is not all that difficult
and it can help a lot with conversations,
with deadlines, with just, you know, setting expectations.
And in particular,
designers often need the basic understanding
to be able to work with Git and communicate with developers.
So another completely separate group
of people who are using Git these days
are governments and large organizations.
Not technical, right?
They're not, I don't know, tech startups.
Governments use Git a lot to manage the drafting of laws,
collaboration of drafting laws,
sharing data and large data sets.
So Washington DC City Council uses Git and GitHub.
We'll talk about GitHub in a bit,
to publish its laws
and have made it a collaborative process.
Citizens have actually found
and fixed typos collaboratively in those laws.
They've fixed them using Git.
So I think I have some examples.
Here we are.
This is the city of Chattanooga.
They use GitHub, which again,
we'll talk about what GitHub is and how it compares to Git,
but all you need to know is that it's based on Git.
This project is simple.
It just shares parking locations in the city of Chattanooga.
And then if we go to GitHub's webpage,
they have something called governments.github.com.
They show actually a whole bunch of different governments
that use GitHub, which again is built on top of Git.
So governments, groups from Argentina,
Australia, the US, the UK, I mean,
pretty much every country is listed here.
Now, that doesn't mean that Git
plays a central role in all of these governments.
For example, let's see, USGS, the US Geological Survey.
They have a whole bunch of things on GitHub.
Pages and pages of these projects
that are shared with the public
and they use Git to manage all of them.
Anyway, so that's another group that use Git these days.
Scientists also more and more are using Git
to help collaborate on projects,
to share findings and data sets,
to manage code and work together on code bases.
Git and GitHub together really work well in a open source
or a peer reviewed world like science and research.
We'll learn more about GitHub.
I keep saying that, but we will.
Some other groups.
Writers.
It's not all writers, certainly.
It's not that common these days,
but some writers really are becoming fans of Git.
I listen to some screenwriting podcasts
to fall asleep to sometimes,
and every so often there's an episode about using Git
to write screenplays, manage versions, right?
I talked about having different essay versions.
Well, with a screenplay, you've got so many revisions,
so many drafts.
Or a novel, so many characters,
so many ways of structuring a novel,
ordering things, different arcs.
So Git is definitely gaining in popularity there.
And then specifically,
I've seen multiple use cases of Git
for collaborative textbook writing
where textbooks usually have multiple authors.
So this is a book, a textbook on informal homotopy.
Homoto, I think it's homotopy type theory.
I have no clue what it is, what the book,
I mean, this means nothing to me other than the fact
that it's a textbook on something crazy sounding.
But a lot of people have used this textbook.
It looks like a couple of thousand people have started.
So it's like a favorite of their projects on GitHub.
And here we'll see there's 85 people
who have collaborated to write this textbook.
Just one simple example.
Now the last slide.
Anyone really can use Git.
People find all sorts of creative uses,
from keeping a daily diary
to writing their PhD thesis with Git,
all the way to composers.
I saw a Reddit comment from a music,
a composer who writes symphonies,
and he uses Git to help track the massive changes.
All the different files, the parts,
as his symphonies evolve over time.
It's a month, multiple month process
to write a symphony for a full orchestra
with all the different instruments written out,
he uses Git to help with that.
So I assume a lot of you who are watching this
are probably in this group right there, or maybe this group.
But increasingly, I expect in the next few years
there'll be more governments, more scientists,
more writers, more symphony composers who use Git
because it really can be,
I won't say a life changer, maybe a life saver.
It can save you a lot of stress and time down the line,
assuming you can get past the initial hurdle
of learning it.
We are on the precipice of learning it, so I'll shut up.


=== Github: The Basics ===


--- Git Vs. Github: What's The Difference? ---

Instructor: Next up, I want to talk about
an important distinction, the difference
between Git and GitHub.
This course does cover both.
They are closely related, but they are not the same thing.
So Git, as we've been talking about,
is this version control software.
It runs on somebody's machine, it runs on my laptop,
it runs on your desktop, or whatever.
It runs on people's computers.
It doesn't need internet.
You don't need to register for an account.
It's just something that you download.
If you don't have it yet, and then you use it
on your machine, you could never have internet ever
and you can still use Git,
in the same way that you could if you had like,
a text editor, or Microsoft Word, or Excel,
you can create those documents.
You don't need the internet, you don't need to sign up.
Although, I don't know, maybe these days,
Microsoft needs an account.
I don't know.
But whatever.
Text edit, you can just write text documents, whenever.
GitHub, on the other hand, is a service.
It's a web service, and what it does is,
it takes Git repositories.
That's the fancy way of saying Git projects.
And it hosts them.
It stores them in the cloud,
and makes it easier to collaborate
on them with other people.
So it's a website you do need an account for.
You do need the internet to use it,
and it takes the stuff you do locally on your laptop,
or my laptop, or whatever, using Git.
And then it allows us to put that online,
and share it with other people, or the other way around.
Other people can put their stuff online,
and then we can get their code,
or their Git projects on our machines.
So it connects people, it connects Git projects.
And in this course, we're going to start with Git first.
You kind of have to, we don't have a choice.
We have to understand how Git works
and the different commands before we can move on to GitHub.
So that will come second.
Although it's not like the course is split exactly in two,
because we do cover some Git content
after we learn more about GitHub.
So just to try and visualize this or help you visualize it,
if this is my project I've been working on locally
on my machine, no internet, no collaborators involved,
and this is my Git history,
I have a whole series of these checkpoints.
If I wanted to share this with other people
and collaborate with them, I could put it up on GitHub.
That's what I'm showing here.
There's a cloud, that's the GitHub logo.
I'm taking this work and all this history,
and putting it online on GitHub for some collaborators,
or maybe for the whole world to see.
Then those collaborators here, we've got two people.
They can take that work and get it on their machine.
They can add on, they can modify it, they can do
their own work, and then share that back up to GitHub,
and then I can go and get it from GitHub,
and we can all work together.
So all of a sudden, we can have lots and lots of people
collaborating on projects, thanks to GitHub.
That is something we will learn.
It's kind of a separate workflow,
a set of skills that you need.
In addition to just understanding the basics of Git,
we have multiple sections of GitHub ahead of us.
But first, as I've said, we're going to start with Git.
So that's all I wanted to say here.
I just wanted to make that clear.
Git and GitHub are not the same thing.
GitHub definitely requires some knowledge of Git.
It is a tool that is built for Git and for Git users,
but you could live your entire life
as a Git developer, never touching GitHub.
Anyway, we'll talk more about it later on.
Let's focus on Git for now.


=== Fetching & Pulling ===


--- What Really Matters In This Section ---

-: So, this section is all oriented around installation
and setup, nothing very glamorous,
but a lot of critical content that we'll need
to move forward.
So, the first thing we cover
are the two main ways of using Git,
from the command line and from graphical user interfaces.
That isn't a very important distinction to understand.
We'll be playing around with both throughout the course.
And, then we focus on installing Git.
So, I have separate instructions for Mac
versus Windows users.
That's definitely going to be critical.
I marked it as yellow
just because it can take a little bit of time
if you're on a Windows machine.
It's not hard, you just have to change some settings,
and watch the video, you'll see.
We just click a bunch of times, and hit "next,"
and then hit "next," and then hit "next."
But, obviously, very critical.
We also install an application called GitKraken.
It's a GUI for Gits, it's free.
I guess it's not critical.
You don't have to use it if you wanna use Git,
but I'm gonna put it as important/critical,
because for this course we'll be using this,
but it is not critical to Git, itself.
Configuring your Git name and email, critical,
but also very quick and easy.
And then, the biggest question mark in this section
is the terminal crash course videos.
There are three videos at the end of this section
that are absolutely critical if you have no experience
working with terminal commands, basic Unix commands,
like LS, and CD, and Touch.
So, if you're familiar with those,
you can skip those videos, and they're not critical.
They're not really Git specific at all.
So, if you have experience, you can skip those.
But, if it's all new to you, I 100% would sit through them.
You don't need to take notes,
but practice along with those videos,
they are very important.
If you wanna be able to use Git down the line,
we have to be able to navigate through the terminal.
So, most things in this section are critical,
but no big concepts.
It's just installation,
plus this weird thing at the end with the terminal.
I highly recommend checking that out if you're new.


=== Github Grab Bag: Odds & Ends ===


--- Installing Git: Terminal Vs. GUIs ---

Instructor: All right, so before we go on
to installation, we're about to do that,
we need to start by talking about the two options
for how we interact with Git.
We can use the terminal, a text-based interface,
and we can use graphical user interfaces.
So, since it was originally created
and still to this day, Git is largely,
or primarily a terminal based tool, a text-based interface.
It's used mostly by developers and has been for a long time.
And most developers are comfortable using the command line.
So, it's not the most user friendly experience.
It's certainly not the most beautiful,
but it's at the core of Git.
It's what Git was really built to do originally.
With that said, as Git's popularity has increased,
so have a number of GUIs,
graphical user interfaces, applications,
pieces of software you download that make it easier,
or at least more visual
and more graphical to interact with Git.
There are quite a few of these different applications
out there, these different GUIs for all different platforms.
Some of the more common ones are GitHub Desktop
SourceTree, Tower, GitKraken, Ungit.
There's actually a whole list here on the Git website.
Can see quite a few of them.
Some of them are free, some of them are not.
Some of them you have to buy.
Some of them are subscriptions or they have different tiers,
but they all have the same goal, to help visualize,
and not just like visually show you stuff,
but help you interact with Gits using your mouse
and buttons instead of using the terminal.
So, just as a quick example.
Here, I have a Git project open using my terminal.
If I want to see a history of all the different people
who have collaborated or all the different checkpoints,
here they all are.
This is what it looks like in my terminal.
This is a graphical user interface.
It's a lot prettier.
It's the exact same project.
2048 is the name of it.
This is much prettier and in some ways
a lot easier to understand.
However, it may not be faster in all situations.
For somebody who's well versed with a terminal,
with a command line who's already using it day-to-day,
this is still fastest.
It's what's most comfortable.
It takes time to get to that point.
And I'm not telling you, you know,
one way or the other is better,
but using a terminal is going to be expected of you
if you are a developer or if you plan on being a developer
and you can do things in one line of code here,
one command, that might take three or four button clicks,
but at the same time, this opens the doors
to all sorts of people to use Git and interact with Git
who aren't super command line savvy, right?
This is a pretty terrible interface, objectively.
So, I'll just quickly run through sort of the pros and cons.
Using these graphical user interfaces,
there's a much lower barrier of entry, that's always great.
Friendlier to use, can be a much more positive experience.
And for some users who are experienced
with the command line, they still may prefer
the visual experience of a GUI.
Now, some of the cons are that there's a lot of magic
involved with the graphical user interfaces.
Some of them really obfuscate
or they abstract away what's happening behind the scenes.
So, you may not really understand what your button clicks
are doing, and that can work for you 99% of the time,
but then when things go wrong, it can be a problem.
Also, these GUIs lead, can lead, to users
being dependent on one piece of software
because they do change one GUI to the next.
Even if they are similar, they have different buttons,
different approaches, different labels for things,
different windows and all of that.
So, eh, you know, I'm very pro GUI, to be honest with you.
However, the command line has a lot going for it as well
if you can get past the fact
that it's not beginner friendly,
it's ugly and it's often not the best experience
if you're designing it from scratch.
If you can get past those cons, it can be a lot faster,
once you get comfortable.
There are some features that you can really only do
or interact with on the command line, Git features,
but also a whole bunch of other features.
The commands are always going to be the same
from one command line to the next.
Assuming you're using a Unix space shell,
it doesn't matter whose machine you're on
or which machine you're on, the commands are consistent
and Git is created as a command line tool.
So, all the documentation, tutorials, resources,
they're all oriented around the command line.
So, there's a lot going for both sides.
Unfortunately, there's kind of a lot of gatekeeping
around people using GUIs, that it's somehow lesser
or you're not really using Git.
It's kind of garbage, it's BS in my opinion.
We will be using both in this course, not side by side,
but rather, I will be teaching using the command line.
That's really the assumed way of interacting with Git
still to this day.
If you have plans on being a developer,
if you are a developer already,
command line is just part of that package.
You've gotta know how to interact with it.
So, I will be showing you how to use Git
from the command line,
but I'll also be illustrating concepts using a GUI.
I will be translating what we do.
So, I'll show you, you know, here's this one thing
we can do where we make a new branch,
or here's how we merge, blah, blah, blah.
And then, here's how you can do the same thing in a GUI.
So, we'll be using a GUI in particular called GitKraken.
This is this lovely logo here.
We will be installing it and setting it up in a video
in this section,
but first we're going to install Git on our command line.
So, if you're on a Mac, there'll be a video
for installing Git on a Mac, and if you're on a PC,
there'll be a video for installing Git on a Windows machine.
All righty, so hopefully that explains a little bit
about the differences or the two ways
of interacting with Git.
There's the hideous, but very, very common command line,
ubiquitous amongst Git users.
And then, there's this fractured world of user interfaces,
graphical user interfaces that vary quite a bit.
Some of them aren't full featured,
others are quite powerful, but they all have the goal
of making it easier or more visual to work with Git.
So, we'll be using both,
but primarily the command line first.
And I will actually have a crash course
on how to use the command line in this section as well.


=== Git Collaboration Workflows ===


--- WINDOWS Git Installation ---

Instructor: Okay, so this is the Windows Git
Installation video.
If you're not on a Windows machine,
I guess you're welcome to join us if you want
but I would just move on and go to the next video.
Installing Git on a Windows machine is, it's not complicated
but it's a little bit trickier than to do it on a Mac.
And the reason for this is that Git was designed,
it was created, if you watch that video where I did
you know, the brief history of Git,
it was created to run on a Unix-based interface.
It was designed for Linux because the guy who created it
Linus Torvalds, also created Linux.
Okay, the problem that we run into on a Windows machine
is that Windows machines
don't come with a Unix-based prompt by default.
Windows comes with a different command line interface
called Command Prompt.
It's not Unix-based.
If you don't know what Unix is,
it really it's not a big deal.
You don't need to know what it is.
It just causes an issue here.
Git wants to run with a Unix-based interface
and there's this shell,
this thing called Bash that is a default shell
for Linux machines and for Macs.
So it's a lot easier on those machines.
We don't have to go jump through any hoops.
On a Windows machine,
we have to download something called Git Bash
which we're about to do and Git Bash
is going to emulate a Bash, a Unix experience
on our Windows machine.
And it comes with Git also.
So some people actually use Git Bash
without even touching the Git portion.
They just want the Bash portion.
Anyway, you'll see, you know, it's not too bad
it's a single package we download
and then it's just a couple of menus and settings
that we have to walk through.
So that's all we're gonna do here.
If none of that explanation made sense to you, don't worry
we'll just install it and it should work.
But if you're curious, this is kind of the issue at the core
of why it's a little trickier on Windows.
Git was not designed to run on a Windows machine originally
so there's just an extra hurdle or two.
Okay, let's go.
All right, so the first thing we need to do
is go to the Git homepage, the Git website,
and download the Git installer for Windows.
So I've included in the resources a link.
It's also just Git-scm.com.
I never remember that.
I just Google or binging Git.
And then click the link.
So I'm gonna click download just the version
You can see the other options, 62 and 64 bits.
But anyway, it looks like it finished.
So I'm going to open this up.
Alrighty, I'm going to click yes.
Do I want to allow it to make changes?
And is there a way to make this larger?
It does not look like it.
So I'll try zooming in post-production
to make this a little bit easier for you to see.
It's quite small on this large screen.
Anyway, I'm gonna click next.
This is the license.
You know, I've read the entire thing.
All right, I'll hit next.
Then it's asking where I want to install it.
I'll leave the default.
So C Drive program files.
Git next up here.
I'm just gonna leave all these defaults,
so I'm not gonna check or uncheck anything.
And click next.
And then it's saying the name of the shortcut
that it creates for me
I'll just call it Gits and that it's good to go.
Now this is one spot where I recommend actually
deviating from the default.
So it's asking us to choose the default text editor
that Git uses.
Now, the default that it uses right now
is something called Vim.
It is kind of a nightmare if you've never used it.
They commands and it's all done via text in the terminal.
A lot of people use it, but way, way more people
are scared of it and confused by it.
So I recommend switching this over to VS Code
or Visual Studio Code.
So this is a brand new install of Windows on my computer.
I don't actually have VS code yet
so I'm gonna click this use visual studious code,
Visual Studio Code as Gits default editor.
And it doesn't let me hit Next
because I don't have it installed.
So I'm going to click that link
and just open it up and then download For Windows.
We won't need this text editor right away.
And you don't have to use this editor either.
I have a video where I explain how to get out of Vim
and how to use Vim in one context.
So if you wanna use Vim, you can do that.
Or if you have some other editor that you like,
feel free to use that instead.
So this is a pretty quick install
just accept the agreement.
Location is fine.
That's good to go.
And then I'm going to leave this checked Add to Path.
We want that.
And I'm gonna click this register code
as an editor for supported file types,
so the bottom two checkbox is there.
And then I'll click next, install
and hopefully that goes pretty quickly.
And then while that finishes up
I guess I do actually have to wait for it to finish
in order to go back to the other installer for Git.
Okay, so that finished we could launch it right now
but we really don't need it.
All that we need that for is to,
so that we can use VS code as the default editor
so it doesn't register that we actually have that.
I'm gonna click back and next again.
Okay, now it's working.
So we still have Visual Studio Code selected
and now I can click next.
And then here, this is a bigger topic actually
that we're not gonna go into a whole lot right now
but a bigger topic we discussed throughout the course.
In late 2020, there's been a push
without going into too much detail
there's been a push to rename the default branch
in Git and GitHub from Master to Main
or some other similar name like Trunk or development.
We'll talk more about what this means.
We haven't talked about branches at all
so that probably makes no sense.
I'm actually going to say let Git decide
and keep it as the current default branch name.
But later on I will show you
how to change the default branch name.
We'll talk about how to work with Main instead of master
and we'll cover all of this.
So to keep things simple and to keep you sort of in sync
with the standard documentation and tutorials you'll see
in the world right now, we're going to just let Git decide.
All right, and then I'll leave this alone as well.
Okay, I'm gonna click next again,
leave this as use the open SSL library.
So on this page or this screen
we're gonna leave the top option selected
checkout Windows-style, commit Unix style line endings.
It doesn't matter what that does right now
but we're gonna pick that first one.
And then we have this screen
which terminal emulator do we want to use?
If you wanna follow along with me and what I'll be using
well throughout the course I'm using a Mac,
but on the Windows specific videos
I'll be using this first one, MinTTY.
And then we're gonna select default
just the default option that's already selected for us.
And then, yep, we'll just keep this one selected,
Git Credential Manager Core.
We'll enable file system caching that's already selected.
Okay, we're good to go.
And we don't need to enable support for pseudo console
so we don't need to select that.
And then we click install and we wait for this to finish.
And I'll probably fast forward.
All right, so it looks like it finished up.
Let's launch it.
So we'll click launch Git Bash
and then we can get rid of this.
We don't, I don't care to see the released notes personally.
And then we'll click finish.
So you'll probably see
or hopefully see a prompt that looks something like this.
Your name will be different
and I'll just full screened it to make it hopefully legible.
And for now, the last thing we'll do
just to verify that Git is installed,
is run the command Git --version.
So as long as we see something here
and you should see something here.
If you have this, if you're able to see this window
after that installation, then I can't think of a situation
where Git would not be installed.
But just to verify, we can run this Git --version,
the Git command is being recognized
and we should be good to go.
Now one thing I'll mention is if you do close out of this
you get rid of this terminal window.
If we shut that down, if you wanna reopen it
and have access to it again, a pretty reasonable request
you can just search for Git Bash.
That's the name of the application we want to run or open.
So Git Bash and then we get back to this window.
Okay, so if you're on a Windows machine
this window is where you will be working
when you see me working on my Mac terminal,
I'll talk about some of the minor differences in commands.
But overall, it should be a pretty smooth experience
Now that we have it installed.


=== Rebasing: The Scariest Git Command? ===


--- MAC Git Installation ---

Instructor: Okay, so let's talk about
installing git on a Mac.
Most Macs these days actually come with git pre-installed
and normally that will work fine.
However, this course is actually using
some of the newer features in git,
some new syntax that older versions don't contain.
So you wanna make sure
that you're using git 2.23, 2.23, 2.23 and above.
And the easiest way to do that is to open up a terminal app.
I'll just be using throughout this course
the built-in terminal utility on a Mac.
So it's in applications, utilities, terminal
but I usually just search for it
and honestly it's pretty much always open on my machine.
Alright, so the command that we'll run
to check our version is git --version.
So I see 2.24.3.
I really don't need to upgrade or update,
but just to show you how to go through with it.
If you go to the git documentation,
the link I've included as a resource
with this video
and you click download,
it will detect if you're on a Mac,
download the latest version for Mac.
So it looks like there's different types of releases.
We're gonna click this one here, not the source release,
but the release it's suggesting for Mac.
Okay? And so nothing is gonna start installing just yet,
but what we're gonna do next is click on binary installer.
And you really don't need to worry about this
and panic if things aren't going great.
Remember, you already have git installed,
and if you already have something above 2.23,
then I wouldn't stress about it.
The differences are all very, very minor.
Probably have nothing to do with the videos in this course,
but I'm gonna just show you how to do this.
So we're gonna click this link where
it says Tim Harper provides an installer for git.
Okay. And then we're going to select the latest version here
which for me is 2.27.
And then we just wait for it to download.
So there it is.
And then we'll have to open that up.
Here we are, we just double click on the package
and then I'm gonna have to go into my system preferences
and say, no, no, it's okay.
Don't worry about this.
So I'll go into the security and privacy tab
of my system preferences,
and then I'm going to click open anyway
and then I'm gonna click open.
Okay, now we make it to the installer.
Continue, install,
password or fingerprint depending on your Mac,
and we'll wait a little bit.
All right, it says installation was successful,
we'll move it to the trash.
Alright, so it may seem like our version has not changed,
right? I run git --version again
in my terminal it still says 2.24.3,
but if I open a new window
or even just a new tab,
this is a new tab.
If I run the same command,
we now see we actually have the latest version.
So you just need to open a new window,
a new tab you can verify.
Don't worry if you don't have exactly 2.27,
just aim to have greater than 2.23.
And even if you don't,
the differences really will only come up
with one or two commands,
but it's pretty easy to install.
Hopefully you don't run into any major issues.
And if you do, we have TAs of course to help you out.
But really it's just a package you install.
The most annoying part these days on a Mac
is clicking all of the security system preferences stuff.
Alright, so we now have git installed.
Next up I'm gonna talk about something called GitKraken.


=== Cleaning Up History With Interactive Rebase ===


--- Configuring Your Git Name & Email ---

Instructor: Okay, so now that we have installed Git,
whether you're on a Mac or a Windows machine,
the next thing we need to do is
configure our name and email.
So we need to tell Git who we are
who it should attribute work to on our machine.
So this is not tied to an account necessarily.
There's no password.
You can make this whatever you want
but let me just demonstrate the significance
of setting up our name.
So if I'm working on a project with a bunch
of people, for example, this is a project I have, I'm
I really haven't done anything sort of faking it.
It's--it's React, which is a very large JavaScript library.
I'm gonna just run Quick command here
and what you're looking at right now, full screen this
is a log of different work.
Different checkpoints on this application and who did them.
So here's one made by me, Colt Steele.
But I can go back and see, you know
here's some other work done by someone named Andrew Clark
and somebody else did some other work.
Here's more Andrew Clark.
Here's Brian Vaughn.
So the point here is that, oh
here's Dan Abramov, pretty famous developer.
Anyway, the idea is that Git knows who did what work
and who is making these checkpoints and these changes.
So we need to configure that.
So this does not have to match some account
that you have somewhere else.
However, I recommend
that you use the name that you want to be known
by as a developer.
If you are going to publish your work
and put it up on GitHub.
You want to use a name that you know people know you by
or that will be consistent.
You don't wanna be changing this all the time.
And then your email, I recommend configuring
with the email that you'll set up for your GitHub account
if you haven't done so already.
Later in the course when we talk about GitHub
we can cross that bridge and you can always
reconfigure these two values.
So here's how we do it.
The first step, we'll do our name.
So all we do is Git config and then dash dash Global.
That's a way of telling Git to set our username
or our user.name to be the same name across every time
we use Git.
Every instance, but you can always change this.
So Git config dash dash global user.name, and then in quotes
the name you want Git to know you by.
So I can try this right now.
I'm not gonna configure it.
I want to show you, I can actually just check.
Do you have a user.name for me already Git?
If I run this command, I'm not setting it, I'm asking
and it says, yep, you're Colt Steele.
However, on my Windows side, if I do Git config user.name.
I haven't configured one.
So it shows me nothing.
So I'm gonna set that now.
So Git config dash dash global user.name and then
in quotes, the name I want.
So Git config dash dash global user.name
and I'll do Colt Steele.
Obviously you should put your name there.
I'm gonna hit enter.
We don't really see anything happen, but now if I try
and retrieve it, that's what this line does.
Git what is user.name?
It tells me Colt Steele and we're good to go.
Now we're gonna do the same thing for email.
So it's the exact same pattern
except user.email and then provide your email address.
So we'll try this.
It's the same process.
I'll do this on the the Windows side
but whatever platform you're on, you want to do this
we'll do Git config user.email.
Nothing is there.
But now I'm gonna say Git config dash dash global user.email
and then set it to be
this is not my real email, but colt@gmail.co.
Again, not my real email, but I recommend you put a
an email you have access to
and especially when we sign up for a GitHub account.
If you can foresee the email you would use for GitHub
I would use that email now.
But we can always change it.
It's the exact same line to change it.
Okay, so now I can recall the line from earlier.
If you don't know how to do this, hit the up arrow.
I can scroll through different lines up and down
and I'm just gonna verify
did it set and it did.
Okay. So that's all we needed to do.
Those two lines are going to tailgate who we are so that
for future work, when we make changes, they are attributed
to whatever that user.name and user.email are set to.
Alright.


=== Git Tags: Marking Important Moments In History ===


--- Installing GitKraken (Our GUI) ---

Instructor: Okay, so one other tool
I recommend you install,
definitely not necessary to use Git,
but I am gonna use it throughout the course
to illustrate and to help visualize what's happening
at times is a GUI called GitKraken.
So, as I mentioned earlier,
there are lots of options for graphical user interfaces,
GUIs, for Git.
GitKraken is a great free one
that I think looks pretty nice.
Here it is in action.
So I've already installed it on my Mac.
It's a single click to download it,
and then there's an installer,
so I'll demonstrate that.
But I think it looks pretty good.
It's just a nice tool to help us visualize, you know,
what's happening here, all this history
and these weird branches and mergings
and all stuff we haven't covered at all
of course that we will soon.
And then we can compare and see changes between files,
see if I can demonstrate some of that.
Anyway, it's just a nice tool.
It's free.
There is a paid version that includes some other features,
but the bulk of what we need or everything we need is free.
So click on the link
in the description or the resource I've included.
GitKraken.com, download for free,
and then follow the instructions.
So I'm doing this on my Windows side.
It's hard to tell maybe, but I'm on Windows
and I'm going to wait for that to finish up.
Oh, it did.
I'm gonna open it.
If you're on the Mac or a Mac,
do the same thing, of course, open the file.
Are you opening?
Here it is.
It's installing, and, let's see,
you've got this cute animation of a squid.
Okay, so it does prompt us for an email and a password.
this is not tied to Git itself.
It's asking you to make a GitKraken account
or if you happen to have a GitHub account already,
this will be the easiest option.
But I don't have, well I do have a GitHub account,
but just to simulate the fact that I don't, on this machine,
on my window side, I could create a GitKraken account.
I've gotta just put in a name and an email.
So I'll just do cult and then I dunno, cult@gmail.co.
Not my real email.
I'll do a silly password, purple, horrible password.
Does it even let me do that?
Okay, how about purple green?
Alright, I've read and I've agreed.
Okay, now of course, if you're not comfortable
signing up for another account, another service,
well you're gonna need GitHub through the course,
so I recommend just registering for that anyway.
Otherwise, we'll run into some issues down the line.
But there are alternative GUIs.
I'm using this, not as an integral part of the course
that you have to follow along with, but more as
a tool to help teach and help illustrate things.
It's just much more visual and hopefully more engaging.
Okay, so then it's asking me to put
a name and email in here.
I always make sure this matches what I've configured
Git with what we did just a little while ago.
So we configured Git to have, you know, a name and an email.
I would do the same thing.
So same name and same email.
But it also here will actually update your git config
if you want it to update from here.
Anyway, this is not a big deal,
so I would just make them match.
So I'll do what I did earlier
cult@gmail.co.
Okay, save changes.
And now I'm in and we don't really have anything to do yet
but you should see something like this and eventually
once we start working, we'll see something more like this.
So I believe the Windows
and Mac versions are very, very similar.
I have both of them open here
although I don't have repository open over here.
The UI I think is identical.
If there are any changes, I'll do my best to point them out.
Alright, so we have GitKraken
and now let's get crackin' on the rest of the course.


=== Git Behind The Scenes - Hashing & Objects ===


--- Terminal Crash Course: Introduction ---

Instructor: Okay, so this is an optional crash course
on basic Unix commands.
If you are familiar with these commands,
I'll run through them very quickly.
Things like LS and PWD and CD and TOUCH and MKDIR,
make dir, make dir, RM, RM-RF.
If you know those commands already
or you're familiar enough with them,
then I would just skip the next three videos, right?
You can always come back to these.
They have nothing to do with Git on their own,
but they play a very important role.
And if you are not familiar with them,
if you're new to the terminal,
100% stick it out through these videos.
I know it's not the the most exciting thing on earth,
but let's be honest, neither is Git.
It's very important, but it's not the sexiest topic.
So the reason this all matters
is that I'll be teaching Git
primarily from the command line.
So I'll be doing things like,
just as an example,
everyone, I'm going to move into this folder here.
And to do that I would use the CD command,
which we have not yet discussed.
And then in here, I'd like to make a new file
called, you know, my app.js file.
And then we'll run some git command in here,
do some git stuff.
Again, haven't talked about any of this,
but I'll do things like that.
And then we'll run another command and then we'll back out.
The point is that we'll be navigating
through the terminal,
moving to different locations, different folders,
manipulating files, making changes,
deleting, creating things,
and then interacting with Git from here.
We'll run commands that are specific to Git
and the folder that we're in.
So if you are comfortable
with those basic commands I've already laid out,
skip the next few videos.
If you're not, if you're not familiar, don't freak out.
This is stuff that, it's easy,
but it takes a bit of time for it to really stick.
The hardest part is remembering the commands.
So I recommend you just put some sticky notes up
or a cheat sheet just to come back to these commands.
No one's expecting you to to know them by heart
after three videos.
It takes a while for my bootcamp students,
in-person at least,
to start working with these commands
like they're second nature,
because they're not.
It's kind of a horrible interface,
but you force yourself to use it and you'll get comfortable.
Last thing I'll say is if you're on a Mac,
I'll be using the terminal app.
And if you're using a Windows machine,
as we installed Git, we set up Git Bash,
so my screen will look like this on the Windows side.
Either one, right?
The commands are 99.9% identical.
So if you see me do a command like ls on the Windows side
or on the Mac side,
they both are going to do the same thing.
Alright, so let's get started.
Remember, completely optional,
but I highly recommend sticking it out through these videos.
If you don't know the terminal commands
if you don't know the basic Unix commands
that I quickly ran through,
CD, TOUCH, Make Directory, RM, LS, PWD,
those are going to be pretty important
for the rest of the course
so that we can work with Git.
Alright, I'll shut up.
Let's get started.


=== The Power of Reflogs - Retrieving "Lost" Work ===


--- Terminal Crash Course: Navigation ---

Instructor: Alright, so in this video
I'm gonna run through
some of the essential terminal commands for navigation,
for moving around on your machine.
We need this in order to work with Git.
If you already know these commands,
things like ls and pwd and cd,
if you know those commands, feel free to skip this of course
but if you don't, I'm gonna run through this quickly.
But also I recommend you take some time to practice
and just keep a reference or a cheat sheet up
that you can look back at
because I'll be using a lot of these commands
throughout the course.
But nothing super difficult, I promise,
the hardest part is just remembering them.
Okay, so I've got my Mac window here,
I've got my terminal open, just the terminal app on Mac
so if you're following along with a Mac,
you'll look at this screen.
And then occasionally when there is a small deviation
or difference on a Windows machine,
here is my Windows terminal, this is the Bash
or Git Bash shell that I've opened up
so if you installed that on a Windows machine,
it will look something like this.
So the first command we'll talk about is called ls
it is short for list.
List, the contents of a folder or of the current directory.
So if you type ls into your terminal and you hit Enter,
wherever you currently are,
and we haven't learned how to move yet
so we'll talk about where we currently are,
wherever that location is,
we will see the contents printed out.
So in this case, I'm in a folder
that contains some JavaScript files
a HTML file, a CSS file, a llamas Python file,
a folder called Secret,
that is what's printed out at least in this slide.
So if I try it over here,
this is a brand new terminal window,
I just made a new tab.
I haven't moved, I haven't talked about moving.
Where am I?
Well, I'm at a location called the Home Directory
and it's abbreviated
or it's symbolized by this tilde character,
you can find that above a tab key on most keyboards.
Anyway, my home directory contains a lot of things.
If I hit ls, you won't see all of these.
Some of them are standard on a Mac,
like Applications, Desktop, Documents, Downloads,
Public, Pictures, some of them are my folders I've made
like GitDemo and GitStuff.
What else?
Pets, TerminalDemo.
Those are my folders I've made.
Anyway, you'll see something, right?
You'll see contents of your home directory.
And if you're on a Windows machine
we can do the same thing using Git Bash so ls.
Now, I see different things
because there are different files and folders
on a Windows machine but I'm in the same location
on this Windows machine, tilde, that is my home directory.
Alright, so we can't move right now,
we're just simply looking at files and folders
in one location and I'm gonna show you a command
that I don't have a slide for,
on a Mac the command is open.
If we type open. it's actually going to open up in Finder,
on a Mac the File Explorer is called Finder,
the same directory where I currently am.
So this is my home directory
and if you've never used a terminal
you're probably familiar
with this sort of navigation, right?
If I'm wanna look at, my courses folder, I double click.
If I wanna go back, I click the back arrow.
That's kind of the basic navigation without the terminal.
Now if I'm on a Windows machine,
the Open Command actually does not work.
It tells me, "Command not found."
But instead I can do Start.
this is really the one major difference
I can think of so far.
And then this opens up the Windows equivalent of Finder
I think it's called file...
Is it File Explorer?
I'm not much of a Windows user.
Anyway, probably shouldn't admit that.
You can see the folders and files that are listed here
so we've got pictures as an example.
And if I do start. I can see,
all right here's the pictures folder.
We have videos, there's a videos folder there.
So all of those things that we see represented here
are also here, it's just two different ways of interacting
or viewing the contents of this folder.
Alright, so that's ls on its own.
Just ls, nothing afterwards you hit Enter
and it shows us what it's in the current directory
but I can also use ls on a folder.
So I could say, what's inside this Pets folder
and all I need to do is reference the path.
So the name in this case is Pets so ls pets
and that's what's inside that Pets folder.
And I can actually open that folder too
if I just do open Pets
and it opened on my other screen, let me drag this up.
There we are, you can see those contents,
Cats, Chickens, Hamsters, and so on.
Alright, I'll do that on a Windows machine as well.
Let's say I wanna know
what is inside of this GitCourse directory.
So I can do ls git and I need to spell it correctly
but I can also hit Tab to auto complete
and it looks like it's an empty directory.
Well, that's my fault for picking that one.
Let's try another one.
How about what is in GitStuff?
I don't know, I don't remember making that
but we'll try ls GitStuff.
Okay, there's one folder called DEMO.
Not very exciting, but hopefully you get the idea here.
We can use ls with nothing afterwards.
Also, there's a command called the Clear,
I'll just show because I'll be using this
it kind of annoys me
when I have a lot of stuff in my terminal so that goes away.
So that has nothing to do with navigation.
So as I was saying, ls on its own
will list the contents of our current directory,
ls followed by the name of a directory...
like I could do Pets, as I've shown you,
I see the files in Pets, it's a bunch of folders actually.
And if I wanted to look at, let's say the Goats directory
or how about the Cats directory, I can't do ls Cats
because there is no Cats directory where I currently am.
Remember this is what I see, right?
I currently am viewing or I'm inside this home directory,
that's what I see when I type ls.
I have to type out the path to access Cats.
It's inside of Pets so it's actually this ls pets/Cats
and there we are.
It's one of my cats, her name is Blue, Blue Steele.
And that's all I'll show you with ls,
we can reference these paths where we chain things together.
Anyway, the next command I'll show you is pretty simple.
It's called pwd for print working directory.
And what this will do, it's very simple
it just prints out your current location.
It prints out the path to where you currently are.
So we haven't been able to move, right?
We haven't changed locations yet.
We've been able to like peek into other folders with ls
but pwd is, if I just type it like that,
it's gonna give me the exact location where I am right now.
So the home directory here is just shorts...
That little tilde is a short way
of referencing this location.
My user on here is called coltsteele.
That is where I currently am.
But if I'm on my Windows machine, it's gonna...
It's quite different.
It's similar but it's different
because on a Windows machine we've got this C Drive, right?
So c/Users/coltsteele
and that's obviously going to be your username,
so probably not coltsteele.
So that is where we currently are,
if I type pwd, that's my location.
And that brings me to our next command,
which is CD for change directory,
this is how we move around.
It's the equivalent if I do open,
it's the equivalent of double clicking
on one of these things, right?
And moving between folders.
I'm now in a different folder,
you could think of, this is my current directory.
Now if I click here, this is my current directory.
And if I click in Pictures, that's my current directory
and there's one of my chicken's, Stevie Chicks.
All right?
So if I want to change directories from the terminal,
which I'll be doing all the time in the course,
I use CD followed by the directory
that I'm trying to change into.
So I often use ls first.
What do we have?
Let's go into this code directory.
You probably don't have that
but you could pick any other folder of yours and CD into it.
So cs Code
(Instructor typing)
all right, so my prompt changes
it tells me I'm in the Code folder.
Your prompt will look different but it should...
It likely will reveal to you where you are
but if not, you can always type pwd.
And we see, "Oh, now I'm in Users/coltsteele/Code.
So just to illustrate this,
if I were to open the current folder
now I'm in the Code folder, not the home directory.
And I can continue to move but first, if I type ls
now we see completely different contents
a lot of stuff in this Code folder,
this is from one of my other courses
and I could take a look at any of these other locations.
How about, hmm...
CSS Intro, O4 CSS_Intro
So cd 04 and I'm just gonna hit tab to auto complete for me.
And if I CD into that, I type pwd, if I can spell it.
Notice my working directory,
my current location has changed.
And if I type ls, we now see the contents.
And if I open, this is what we're looking at in finder.
text_properties, css_intro, and then a zip file right there.
Same thing on a Windows machine.
If I pick some folder to CD into, how about...
Well, I don't really know, I don't have much on here
but let's go into desktop maybe,
I'm not sure if it's on there.
So cs desktop
(Instructor typing)
and I'm gonna clear and now if I type pwd,
my working directory, my location has changed.
I'm now on my home directory c/user/coltsteele
on a Windows machine /desktop.
If I type ls oh, there's nothing on here.
Well, that's underwhelming.
(Instructor laughs)
And that actually leads me to my next command,
which is a variation of cd,
cd followed by two dots, this is how we move backwards.
So remember I showed you this example in Finder
if I open this up.
if I want to CD into this...
Cd, if I want to double click in and then I decide,
ah I want to go back, I just click the back arrow.
But using cd, what we actually can do is cd..
and this will take us back one level, one folder.
So we back up.
So currently I'm in this CSS_Intro folder,
this is what's inside of it.
If I do cd.. and I type pwd this is where I am now.
That's where I was before,
I'm now one level back, right here.
And I could do it again cd.. first,
let me just show you the contents all that stuff, cd..
now I'm back in my home directory.
So same thing over here,
I'm in the desktop or I'm on the desktop,
there's nothing to look at, it's empty.
cd.. and now I'm in my home directory.
So that's the very basics of navigation.
We'll get more practice in the next video
as we talk more about some other commands,
like making folders and files,
and deleting folders and files.
Along with those commands.
We still need to use cd, pwd, and ls all the time.
So you'll get practice if you're new to this
but also keep in mind, you're not gonna just memorize it
and become a terminal genius overnight.
It takes time and it feels a little bit clunky
when you're starting out.
You don't need to feel like an expert
before you move on to learn git,
just make a cheat sheet, some sticky notes
to remind yourself of the five or six commands that we cover
and stick 'em on your computer
and just look at that if needed.
Anyway, that's the basics of navigation.
We covered ls for list, pwd for print working directory,
and CD for change directory.
cd.. backs out one folder
and the other thing we did was open.
open. will open a folder,
the current folder that we're looking at
and on a Windows machine it's start. okay.


=== Writing Custom Git Aliases ===


--- Terminal Crash Course: Creating Files & Folders ---

Instructor: All right, so the next group
of commands I'm gonna show you have to do with file
and folder creation as well as deletion or destruction.
So we've seen how to navigate around.
But another really important piece
is being able to make new files.
So normally the way we would make a new file
without the terminal would probably involve opening
up some application like I use VS Code.
I have it open, Visual Studio Code,
and then I could go file, new or just command N
and then start making a file.
Whatever type of file this is,
let's say it's a JavaScript file,
I can put some JavaScript in it.
Hello. It doesn't matter if you don't know JavaScript.
And then I can save this file
and then I pick a destination, right?
And I give it a name like app.js
with a .js extension
and then I select somewhere for that to go.
That's the typical workflow for creating a new file.
If you're not doing it from a text editor
or from some, you know, whatever Excel
or Photoshop or something, you open an application
and you create a file in the application.
But instead we can use a command called touch.
Touch, T-O-U-C-H.
It doesn't actually stand for anything
like the other commands where we have, you know,
CD is change directory.
Touch is just touch.
It has a secondary use we're not really gonna go
into where you can touch a file that already exists
and you're simply updating the modified time.
It really doesn't matter for now.
If it helps, just think of it as a very weird name
'cause it is very odd.
If I were designing it,
there'd be a command called I don't know,
create or make or something.
Anyway, so all that we need to do is run touch
and then a space and then a file name
or multiple that we want to create.
And when we hit enter, wherever we currently are,
whatever directory we're in, there will now be a file
in this case called purple.txt.
So I'll demonstrate this, I'll clear.
And I'm currently in my home directory,
so I can just make a file right here if I want to.
Why don't I open finder just so you have it,
so you can see it over there.
I know it's not that easy to read.
Unfortunately this is the largest I can make these icons
but you're not missing much.
Anyway, over here I'm going to create a file.
What should we call this one?
How about purple.js?
So it's a JavaScript file called purple.
So we don't really see anything change,
but if I type LS now, we see a file that's been created
and over here in my finder window I can see purple.js.
So I can also make multiple at once.
I could do red.txt for a text file
and orange, what's another, .py for a Python file?
I could even make a PDF file.
These are all going to be completely empty,
just an empty shell of a file with a name and an extension.
So why don't I do yellow.pdf?
That just made me three files in one go,
red, orange, and yellow.
I can see them here if I run LS
or I could see them over here
by inspecting them with my eyes, I guess.
Navigating, you know, I can see them purple, orange,
red and yellow.pdf.
It is a true PDF file.
My Mac is displaying the PDF icon.
I can do the same thing
of course over here on my Windows side.
Let's see, we're just, whoops, LS.
We're in the home directory. So I could make a file here.
Let me clear this.
Touch. How about magenta.txt?
If I type LS, that will show up right there.
And if I go to the file explorer, start.
Here it is, magenta, and it's a totally empty file
and I could open it from here, select what to open it with
sure notepad, and then I can start working on it.
But I don't have anything to work on,
so I'm just gonna ignore that.
Okay, so that's the basic concept of touch.
The next thing I wanna show you is how
we can make new folders.
So touch is how we make new files.
We can make as many as we want in a single go.
Just separate the names by spaces, specify an extension,
and those files will be created in your current directory.
So I guess I should illustrate, you know,
if I change directories into something else,
for example, what should I do?
Let's go on the Windows side.
I don't have anything on my desktop.
If I CD into desktop, I type LS, there's nothing there.
But if I touch a file, how about touch cyan.js?
Now I have a file on my desktop
and I'm sure I could show that to you.
Here it is, the only file on my desktop.
So where I am when I run this command touch,
that is where the file will be created.
Although you can actually create a file somewhere else
that you're currently not inside.
For example, I could create a file inside of pets.
I'm not in the pets directory.
All I need to do is touch.
And then the path to get to pets from where I am.
I am in this folder.
So I would reference pets, which is somewhere here.
Where are you? There it is.
And then maybe inside of horses,
I could create a file.
So I could do touch pets slash horses slash
how about rocky dot, I don't know a PNG file?
Which you normally wouldn't create an empty PNG,
but there we go.
And we see it created over here.
I'm not gonna see it in my home directory.
It's not here.
I could CD into pets. I still won't see it.
I could CD into horses and now I see it.
All right. So that's the basics of making files.
You can make them in a different location
as long as you reference the correct path
from where you are.
Or you just make them in the current location where you are.
Whatever you see when you type PWD,
if you try and create a new file with touch,
dot txt or whatever the file is,
you're creating it in this location.
And there we are.
There's our second horse, good old, Rocky,
and askldjalskdt.txt.
Okay?
The next thing we need to know how to do is make folders.
So to make a directory,
the command is make dear or make dir, I guess.
I guess you pronounce it directory.
So make dir. I always say make dear in my head.
it doesn't matter. M-K-D-I-R.
So this command, you follow it up with the name
for directory you want to create.
It works in the same way as touch.
You can pass in multiple, separate them by spaces
and by default they'll be created in your current location,
in your working directory.
So let's go to the pet's directory.
Right now I'm in this horse's directory,
so I'm gonna back out, okay?
And I wanna make a new type of pet in this directory.
So what should I do?
Frogs? How about turtles?
So we'll make a new directory, so not touch,
but M-K-D-I-R turtles.
And it doesn't have to be capitalized.
I'm just doing that because all these other directories are
and if I show you over here, there's no turtles folder
but now there is and it's empty.
So if I type LS, I see turtles.
I can CD into turtles. I can create a file in here.
What's a famous turtle?
I guess there's Lonesome George,
who technically is a tortoise,
but we'll make a file for him.
How about a Python file? Great.
And then I could even make another folder in here.
Which should I call this folder?
Inside of turtles, let's make two directories.
How about sea turtles?
And this is actually an important note.
You don't wanna put spaces in your names of files.
We want to, especially if we're using make directory,
it's gonna think this is two directories we want to make.
Sea space turtles.
If you really wanted a space, you could do this with quotes
but I don't recommend having spaces in there,
it just causes problems.
So do sea dash turtles?
Sea turtles, like this?
See underscore turtles, it doesn't matter.
So I'll make a directory for sea turtles
and then we'll just call them land turtles.
Sure. I don't think that's the right term actually.
But here we are.
I now have two directories and a file inside of turtles.
So two empty folders I just made,
and then I can fill out their contents.
So that's make directory, you just pass in a name.
I'll quickly demonstrate this on a Windows machine.
I'm on the desktop. I'll make a folder here.
M-K-D-I-R.
How about, I don't know, cars?
And I'll do two at a time. Cars and bikes.
And then if I want to view them,
I could do LS, I see them, right?
And they're visually represented differently,
a different color.
And then also a slash after their name.
But I could also view my desktop.
And then I see the two empty folders plus my cyan file.
Okay, so that is make directory as well as touch.
Those are the two commands we saw in this video.
Just remember that they run relative to where you are.
So if you wanna make a file in some folder,
it's easiest if you navigate to that folder.
And you can make a hundred files at once using touch
and then open up an editor or something
to actually work on those files.
Okay, so next up,
the last piece we're gonna talk about deleting stuff.

--- Terminal Crash Course: Deleting Files & Folders ---

Instructor: Next up, let's talk about
deleting files and folders.
This is the last important thing.
Well, there are other important commands,
but this is the last of the fundamentals
of working with files and navigating.
So to delete a file, we have a command R M.
I assume it stands for remove.
And all we need to do is R M and then a space
and then reference a file name,
assuming that the file is in our current directory,
or we need to reference the correct path
to get to that file.
Now the thing you need to know upfront is
that this is not gonna put it in your trash can
or your recycling bin or whatever it's called.
This deletes the file.
It is gone.
So you wanna be careful with this, right?
You don't want to go around deleting crucial files
although this is a Git course
and Git can help solve or alleviate these issues.
If you delete something accidentally
if it was being tracked by Git
we can restore it with a single command.
It's very easy and painless.
Anyway, that's getting ahead of ourselves.
Let me demonstrate how this works.
Just remember, this permanently deletes the file.
So what should we delete?
If you wanna follow along
you might want to just make something to delete first.
So you could do touch, delete me.
So I didn't even give it a file extension.
If we look at it, where am I?
I'm in the turtles directory.
I could always do P W D to verify.
So that's right here.
Here's the file I made.
I could even rename it from here.
How about we make it a .D doc X file
which is Microsoft Word, and it's gonna ask me
are you sure you wanna do that?
It doesn't matter.
I'm gonna delete it.
But I wanted to show you, if you make modifications here
I could even rename this,
delete me with a bunch of M or
with a bunch of E's at the end.
If I type L S now, this is up to date as well.
Okay? So to delete it, it's just R M
and then the name of the file.
And that's because I'm in this folder,
so I don't need to reference some other path.
This is exactly what I need.
If I hit enter, you can see it disappears.
Whoops, that's not L S.
I meant to type L S.
It's gone.
So it's not coming back.
We're not using Git right now.
So that is gone, that that file is totally gone.
So let's make two more files to delete just really quickly.
How about delete.txt and remove.xls?
That's, I think that's Excel?
Maybe not.
Well, whatever that extension is.
I thought it was Excel.
It doesn't matter.
I'm gonna delete them.
So I'll do 'em together.
They're both here.
You can see them there.
R M, delete.txt space, remove.xls.
They're both gone.
Okay, quickly, I'll show it over here.
Let's delete this cyan file that I made on my Windows side.
So here it is, cyan.js,
R M cyan.js.
If I type L S, it does not show up here.
And if I look over here
in the the file explorer, it's not here.
I don't, maybe there's a way to make this larger.
There we go.
Well still it's not here.
Okay, so the next thing I wanna talk
about is deleting folders.
If I wanna delete this folder,
land turtles right there.
I cannot use the R M command as it stands.
Land turtles like that.
It says nope, land turtles is a directory.
R M deletes files or at least R M the way we used it.
So we actually have a variation of R M in order
to delete a folder or a directory.
R M dash R F.
We haven't talked about flags.
This is, you know
just a crash course on the basic terminal navigation,
the essential commands you need to know.
But all of the commands we've used actually
accept a bunch of options that modify how they behave.
So as a quick example
L S actually has a couple of other variations.
One is L S dash A, which is gonna show me hidden files
so that dash A modifies the behavior of L S.
It says list all files including hidden,
hidden files start with a dot.
So there's a hidden file.
This will actually come up when we make a Git repository.
It makes a hidden directory for us.
Anyway, getting ahead of myself.
So these flags are different options we can pass in.
And there are two we will use on R M
if we want to delete a directory,
R and F.
We don't need to go too much into what they mean.
They stand for recursive,
that's the R and force is the F.
Basically, this is how we delete a folder.
But you wanna be careful with this
because just like with deleting a file
from the command line or from the terminal, it's gone.
So if you delete a directory that's full
of important stuff and it's not backed up somewhere,
it's not in the cloud, it's gone.
That's kind of end of story.
So let's say I wanna delete the entire turtles directory.
Why don't I start by deleting land turtles?
I didn't mean to type this by the way,
so I wanna delete land turtles.
Again, R M land turtles does not work
but R M dash R F land turtles will, it's gone.
There's no land turtles here,
but that was an empty directory.
If I try and delete turtles,
which itself has, it doesn't have a lot,
but turtles has sea turtles folder,
and George.Py, a file.
I'm now in the directory above it.
I'm in pets, so I'm gonna try deleting it.
So I'll clear, by the way, on a Mac that shortcut
if I have a bunch of stuff to clear is command K.
Anyway, I'm in the pets directory
and if I wanna delete turtles, R M dash R F turtles.
So you'll see it over here.
There it is, and there it goes.
It's gone.
And that's it.
I can't navigate into turtles, it doesn't exist.
No such file or directory.
But remember I need the dash R F to do that
if it's a folder.
If it's just a file, I just do R M.
And either way those are gone.
They're gone for good.
So be careful, you know
don't go around running this command
on very important files and folders.
Just always take a moment to think about what you're doing
because you don't have that intermediate step
of dragging something to the trash.
But not much of this course really relies
on deleting stuff, to be honest.
It's mostly creating things
and tracking those things with Git and changing those files.
So it's not like we're going
around deleting a bunch of stuff.
I just figured you should know about those commands
'cause they will come up every so often.
All right, so that's R M and R M dash R F.
They're both the same command.
Just a variation to delete folders.

--- OPTIONAL: VS Code Color Theme ---

[No transcript available for this lecture]

--- What Is A Git Repo? ---

Instructor: All right, so as the slide says,
it's time for a quick, high-level conceptual overview.
I'd like to try and
introduce things at a conceptual level first
before we dive into the commands.
But I also don't want to take too long.
I know we just want to get to the commands.
So in this video I want to talk about the term "repository".
This comes up all the time when we talk
about Git and GitHub.
So much in fact that people usually just say "repo"
instead of "repository".
Save a couple of characters there.
They're the same thing.
So a Git repository is just a Git workspace.
Installing Git on our machine is great.
You know, I have Git over here.
Hopefully you installed Git,
following the instructions in the course.
I have Git, I can just verify it's here.
I can check the version.
Sure.
But that doesn't mean Git is active or that I'm using Git.
It's just on my machine.
I have to manually tell Git when I want to use it
and in which directories, I have to create repositories.
So anytime I want to use Git for
let's say I'm writing a new symphony or a novel,
or I'm working on a freelance web development project,
or whatever it is,
I need to tell Git to create a new repository.
So it's just a Git workspace with it's own history.
So every Git repo has its own history.
They're not linked, they're not connected in any way.
They're these like little encapsulated bubbles.
That's why I have this jar on the right
with some Git history inside of it.
So we can have as many repos as needed,
all with separate histories and contents on our machine.
So I may have a bunch of folders,
a bunch of different projects.
Each one of these is a separate project.
If I want to use Git, I have to go into each project folder
and create a Git repository.
I have to tell Git, "All right, I want to repo in here,
and in here, and in here, and in here."
And whatever happens in those folders,
whatever Git commands I run, whatever history I store
with Git, they're completely separate and not connected.
So this allows me to have different histories for
a symphony, an app I'm cloning, a movie script I'm writing,
a startup idea, a whatever, a novel, portfolio website,
you name it,
I can have as many separate repositories as I need.
And to wrap things up, here I have two separate folders,
two different projects on my machine,
and I've created Git repositories in each of them,
which I haven't shown you how to do just yet,
but I just want to show you
that they have separate histories.
So one project is this large web application,
a bunch of files and folders.
This other one, so the first one is called "Yelp Camp 2.0".
It's a project for one of my courses.
The other one is just "Animals".
It's a single folder with one file,
very straightforward, just a list of animals.
They both have separate Git histories.
They are distinct repositories.
I can prove that to you in a couple of ways.
I'll show you in the console here.
Can see all of this history here is associated
with this "Yelp Camp" repository.
So lots of stuff.
What that stuff is, how I see it,
don't worry about that.
If I go to the "Animals" directory and I do the same thing,
a lot less and different history,
all the histories about animals.
Another way to show that to you is through a GUI,
like GitKraken.
Here, I'm looking at the "Animals" history
for this one repository.
You can see, you know, there's a decent amount of stuff.
It all has to do with animal-y stuff.
And if I switch over to a different repository,
very different, completely distinct history.
There's collaborators.
It's not just me.
And this is, it goes back like a year or more,
versus this animals one is a lot more recent
and obviously focused on animals.
Anyway, we'll learn more about what all this is
and how we make these checkpoints and how to use the GUI
and the command line and all that stuff in upcoming videos.
But for now, I just wanted to explain this concept
of repositories and just prove, show you some evidence
of different Git histories for two different repos.
So that's all there is to this term,
this concept of a repository.
It's a Git workspace.
And in the next video I'll show you how we create them,
how we instantiate a new repo.

--- Our First Commands: Git Init and Git Status ---

Instructor: Okay so,
now that we know what repositories are in general,
let's learn how we instantiate a new repo using git
and before I show you that command,
I'm actually gonna show you a separate, very simple command
called git status.
Git status will come up again and again in this course
and just in your life if you use git.
It's a harmless command.
It just reports back to you
the status in your current repository.
The thing is, we don't have any repositories yet,
or at least if you're following along, we haven't made any.
So if I run git status anywhere on my machine,
assuming I don't have any repos,
I get this message, fatal, not a git repository.
It's telling me, you're not in a git repo.
So it's aware of what git is.
It's not giving me like you know, command not found.
It's telling me, yeah I know, but you're not in a repo.
Versus if I am in a git repo and I run git status,
we see something different.
Now what we see varies and that's why we use git status.
It reports back to us
and gives us information on the current repo we're in.
So we'll use it all the time,
but for now it's just proof that we're not in a repo.
But now we're gonna learn our second command
which is git init.
So this will initialize a new repository
wherever we are in our terminal.
So whatever directory I'm inside of
will become the home of a new git repository.
So it's the equivalent of what this slide showed,
or these diagrams where we have some folder
and we initialize a repo inside of those folders.
We navigate to the folder.
So in my case, I have an empty folder called Basics.
I'll have, you know
different folders for different parts of the course.
I'm gonna make a new directory.
Let's say I'm writing a novel,
so I'm gonna go with MyFirstNovel
and then I'm gonna navigate into there.
This is where I want my git repository.
I want to have a new repo in MyFirstNovel
so I can track the history,
you know, the drafts, the changes I make,
all of that stuff inside of this project
and then I'm gonna run git init.
Before that, just to remind you,
currently not a git repository
when I ran that command, git status.
Now I run git init
and it tells me it initialized an empty git repository n
and then it gives me the whole path to where I am.
MyFirstNovel.
Now, I don't see anything here.
We'll talk about what actually happens in the next video.
There is something here,
it's hidden and it's where git is stored.
But before that, I just wanna recap what we've seen so far.
The command, git init
will instantiate a new git repository for us,
wherever we are, whatever directory we're currently in,
and our terminal where we run that command.
Also, this is something we run one time per project,
so we're not constantly initializing you know,
if we're working on the same project day after day,
if I'm working on this novel
for a couple of months or years,
if more like my speed, probably years,
we would run git init one time.
Git init just enables git in this one project
and then we just use that same repository day after day.
That's kind of the point.
We want that continued history.
Anyway, now if I run git status, we see something different.
So before, not in a repository,
then we initialize git init,
now git status gives me something else.
There's a lot of stuff in here
we don't know about it this point in time,
but we'll make sense of it soon,
but it's just proof
that something git-ish is happening, right?
Instead of this message, not a git repo.
Okay, next up we're gonna talk about
what actually happens when I run git init.
Where is the git folder or files
or what information does it create?
I don't see anything.

--- The Mysterious .Git Folder ---

Instructor: All right, so we just initialized
our first git repository.
Again, that's something we do one time per project
one time per repo.
But what actually happened?
You know, where is the git in this folder?
Well, I'm also gonna show you the docs here
as a way of explaining this.
If we go to the git docs, which is
git-scm.com
I think I've already said I never remember that.
I just Google git.
And then if you go to documentation
and then reference manual, you'll see some git commands
including the one we just used init right there.
And then it tells us git init
creates an empty git repository
or reinitialize an existing one.
But we really care about that first part.
And you'll notice this about the docs.
They're very thorough
and often can be kind of confusing at times.
There's just so much information and it's not,
it's not necessarily displayed in the
the friendliest manner.
Anyway, if we read the description, it says
this command creates an empty git repo
basically a .git directory
with sub directories for blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Hmm. So it creates a directory called .git.
Now, if you know anything about hidden folders
and hidden files, you'll know they all start with a dot.
And there is a hidden folder that we're just not seeing
in this directory where I ran git init.
If I type out not KS, LS.
I don't see anything.
But if I use the -a flag, that's one way of
of seeing all, I think it's, I don't know if it's A for all.
That's what I tell myself.
All files hidden and non-hidden.
Now we see this folder .git.
So if I wanted to, you know, I could look at that.
We don't need to touch it or do anything in there
but this is what we just initialized.
So if I delete this, my git history is gone.
Now we can, you know, back it up and put it on GitHub
and stuff like that once we get there.
But for now, just to prove this, I'm just gonna back out
of here.
I type git status, as we already have seen.
It tells me git stuff, I'm in a repo.
If I back out one more level, just to be clear, now I'm,
I'm outside of this folder.
If I run git status,
not a get repo.
Go back into my first novel, get status.
Okay. So if I remove that folder, rm-rf
you don't need to do this.
This is gonna delete the entire git history
for this project.
If I do that, I type git status.
I'm back to not being in a repository.
So that .git folder is where all the git stuff occurs.
That's, that's what holds it all.
So I'm gonna run git init again, which is, it's okay here
'cause we didn't have any history, but we would've lost a
whole bunch of stuff potentially if I did have history
and I deleted that directory.
So there's a reason it's hidden so you don't, you know
you don't screw with it.
So that's all I wanted to show you here.
That folder will be located in every git repository
you initialize.
Here's this Yelp Camp project where I have git
this is an existing project.
If I do an ls-a,
there we are .git.
And if I just take a look at that,
there's a lot more stuff in this .git folder
than we had in out .git folder
because I've been using git on this project here.
We just initialized this and we hadn't really done anything.
Anyway, in the next video I'm gonna talk
about a common problem that people run into beginners
with git run into when they're starting out new repos
and then we'll start learning the basics
of adding and committing.

--- A Common Early Git Mistake ---

Instructor: Okay, so in this video,
I wanna quickly talk about a common issue
that some students run into early on,
and to explain it, first we need to understand
that when we have a Git repo, we initialize a Git repo,
that's in one directory, right?
In our case, it was the MyFirstNovel directory.
But Git is going to watch everything that happens
in this directory, including anything nested further down,
as you know, child or grandchild directories and so on.
So I could just quickly make some dummy folders.
I'm gonna delete these, so you do not need to follow along.
If you are, just gonna call this,
let's say I'm working on the book.
Here's the intro to the book, I'll cd into the intro,
and then I'll make another folder in here.
How about Draft1?
Okay, so I'm two folders in, two levels deep,
but I can still type git status-
Whoops, apparently not.
If I type it correctly,
and I still get feedback that says,
yes, you are in a Git repo.
So it's not just this folder, MyFirstNovel,
it's everything nested in that folder.
So it's top down.
And that's important to understand for a couple of reasons.
One, any files and folders and changes I do
in this directory for this one project
are tracked by Git if I initialize the repo like I did.
But two, it's important to understand,
we do not want to be initializing another repo
inside of an existing repo.
I made a warning sign to make this clear.
We wanna keep our repositories separate,
and you don't want to run git init
inside of an existing repository.
It's not the end of the world,
but at some point, things will go wrong.
Git will get confused,
because it's tracking everything happening in a folder,
and if one of those folders has Git also initialized,
then it's Git tracking Git, and it just gets confused,
so we wanna avoid that.
And the easiest thing to do is just make sure,
when you run git init, make sure you're not in a repository.
And that's why I showed you to use git status first.
So if I wanted to make a new repository,
I'm writing a new novel, I want to have a separate history,
I would try running git status.
Oh, I'm in a repo.
That should tell me, don't initialize a new repo in here.
You're already in a repo.
Go somewhere else.
So let's back out a couple levels.
Let's keep going.
So I've backed out, and now I can make another directory,
you know, Book2, go into that directory.
Just show it over here.
Here it is.
And type git status.
Not a Git repository.
Now I can initialize.
All right, so you just wanna be careful of that.
If you do happen to initialize a repo
inside of an existing repo,
I showed you how to remove that repository
by getting rid of the corresponding .git folder.
All right, so it's not the end of the world,
it won't give you an error message,
but you wanna be careful,
And in general, my rule is, make a folder for a project
and then initialize Git in that folder.
So you don't wanna have a Git repo on your desktop
or your documents folder or on your entire machine
that's tracking everything.
You could, but most people prefer
to have one repo per project.
So always run git status.
Make sure you're not in a repo before you initialize,
and if you do happen to end up with nested repos,
you can sort it out by deleting one of the .git folders.
Okay?

--- The Committing Workflow Overview ---

Instructor: While it is lovely
being able to initialize a new repo,
we still don't know how to do anything
inside of those repos.
But that's gonna change because we're about to talk about
the most fundamental Git workflow,
the bread and butter of Git, which is committing.
So just like before, we're gonna start with
a quick high-level conceptual overview
and intro to the concept of committing,
which is what this video is.
And then I'll show you the associated commands.
There's two that we need to talk about
in the next couple of videos.
So let's begin by answering a simple question.
What is committing? Or, what is a Git commit?
Well, early in this course, I showed these slides.
I spent kind of a long time making them.
On the top right hand corner,
we have a website that I'm building.
And you can see as I progress, feature by feature
I'm building this site out and modifying it.
And then, as I go, as I make some progress,
I'm adding these checkpoints.
That was a term I used when I first introduced these.
A checkpoint, a snapshot of my project
and its new changes at a moment in time.
Along with a little message,
like Add Top Navbar, or Add First Row of content,
or finish Bottom Row of content. Change to dark theme.
Well, each one of these checkpoints
is actually in Git, what we would call a commit.
I just used the term checkpoint early on
before we actually start learning Git,
because it actually makes sense on its own.
A commit doesn't really sound like much,
at least in my experience.
Anyway, a git-commit is one of
these checkpoints in a Git repository.
And typically, a single Git repository has tons
and tons of these commits, one after another.
And eventually, we'll learn how to go back
to earlier commits, how to undo commits,
how to just take a peek at an earlier commit.
But for now, we're just gonna focus
on making these checkpoints.
How do we do some stuff in a project?
How do we, you know, add a new feature to a website,
and then make a commit?
And then repeat. Do some more stuff, make a commit.
Do some more stuff, make a commit.
That is our goal for the next couple of videos.
I'll quickly show you an existing repository
that I have in, this is GitKraken YelpCamp 2.0.
I've shown this a couple of times.
What I'm looking at right here with this Gooey
is a list of all of the commits that I've made in order.
And actually, there's more than one contributor,
so it's not just me.
So you can see here's the very first commit.
All the way up to some of the more recent ones.
So there's what, over a hundred,
maybe 150, at least, individual commits.
And each one of them is a checkpoint in time,
a snapshot of the repository
and the new work that I did. The new changes.
And it includes a little message.
Like, you know, Refactor asyncErrorHandler and post methods.
Or something very silly and boring, like Initial commit.
Or, you know, add mapbox css back to some style sheet.
Whatever that message is is up to me.
But there is a message,
along with this snapshot of my project in time.
Now, the next thing that's crucial to understand
about making a commit is that it's not the same
as just saving a file.
It's actually, think of it as something
that's built on top of saving files.
We have to make changes first,
and save them to our files before we can even commit.
So, we might use the term checkpoint, or save point.
But we're not talking about just saving a file.
That has nothing to do with Git.
We save files all the time.
But once we have made changes,
we can then group them together into a commit.
So on the right hand side, I'm showing a,
potentially, a commit that I may have made,
that includes changes to four different files,
plus a folder called logos.
And I can group that all together into a new commit.
But first, I would've written some new code
in one of these files and saved it.
And then written more code in another one and saved it.
Then I make that commit.
And the next thing that you need to know
about making a commit is that
it's actually a multi-step process.
It's not as simple as just hitting a button
that says, "Commit, commit, commit."
Instead, there's an intermediate step
where we actually call out
the particular changes that we've made
that we want to include in a commit.
And this allows us to selectively make commits,
which is really, really nice.
For example, imagine I've been working all day,
or all morning, on some project.
I spent a lot of time working on this project,
and I made changes to seven different files.
as you can see on the left hand side.
I deleted a file, I modified two files,
I created four files.
And instead of just making one generic commit
that just says checkpoint right now.
Instead, I can actually call out some of these,
and group them together based upon
the actual stuff that I did.
For example, I might group together
those first three changes.
I deleted a file called team.html.
And then I changed two files called
about.html and about.css.
Those were one thing that I did across three files.
I added some new team members to our about page.
Whatever the, you know, about page looks like.
So that was one commit.
And then, I can take these other four changes,
and group them together into a separate standalone commit.
So this is what I'm talking about
when I say there's an intermediate step.
We can select certain changes,
and make a commit with those changes.
So we don't just say, "Commit, commit, commit."
Instead, we're getting in there with tweezers,
and we're saying, "All right, this, and this, and this.
Now we're gonna commit those changes."
So, to actually make a commit,
there are two associated commands.
And we're gonna talk about the first one in the next video.
It's called git add.
And then the second command is git commit.
And we'll use git add in order to highlight,
or select, those changes that we want
to include in the upcoming commit.
So just to reiterate all of this,
a commit is a checkpoint in time.
It's a snapshot of changes in our repository.
Eventually, we'll be able to go back
to earlier commits, undo commits, merge commits.
There's a whole bunch of things that we can do.
For now, we're just focused on plotting ahead
and leaving a trail of commits
behind a trail of checkpoints.
And when we make one of these snapshots,
one of these commits, we can call out
the specific changes that we want to include in a commit,
rather than just automatically including
all changes in our project, we can select them.
That's the first step. And then commit them.
So in the next video,
I'll show you how to do that first bit.

--- Staging Changes With Git Add ---

Instructor: In this video,
we'll cover the git add command
which is the first of two commands
that we'll use to make a commit.
And as we previously talked about in the last video,
we use two commands
because that allows us
to separate out particular changes we've made.
We can, I think I used the imagery of tweezers,
so we can tweeze them out and select them
before we make a commit
so we can group things together.
And this git add command is what enables that to happen.
So once we've done some work,
we've actually made changes,
we then call those changes out
using the git add command
to stage them for a commit
and then we can make a commit.
And in this video, we're focusing on the first piece.
And before we can do anything with Git,
we need to make some changes.
We need to do that first part, work on stuff.
So I'm gonna do a quick demo.
I made this folder, MyFirstNovel.
I'm pretending I'm writing a novel.
We have a Git repository in here,
as we did, we initialized it earlier.
So I'm now pretending to sit down,
it's day one of writing my novel
and I'm gonna do some work.
And if I was actually writing a novel,
I would probably start by making an outline.
That's just how I like to work.
I outline all my courses.
So I just made a new file there, outline.txt.
And I've opened this folder up in a text editor.
I'm using VS Code.
So here it is, it's just an empty file.
So if I'm writing my novel,
I'll put some basic stuff in here.
I am pretending that I'm writing 'The Great Gatsby'
just so we're upfront about that.
It's now in the public domain in 2021.
So yep, I'm writing 'The Great Gatsby'.
So I'm going to be writing part of chapter one
so I start the outline.
All I know so far,
it's very early on in the writing process,
is that we're gonna meet some of our characters
in chapter one.
I haven't figured out what else happens yet
so I'll save that file.
And if I come over here and I type git status,
we now have made some changes in this project
and Git notices something,
it says something it didn't say earlier.
Untracked files, outline.txt.
Hmm.
All right, so I'm still writing,
it's a little bit later in the morning.
I've outlined, you know, I need to meet these characters
or introduce them in chapter one.
Maybe I wanna start
by actually fleshing out those characters.
I'm gonna make a file called characters.txt.
So before I actually write chapter one,
I want to make sure I've hammered out the details
about those characters.
And I'm just gonna copy
and paste some stuff in I've written.
Okay, so we've got Jay Gatsby,
Nick Carraway, Daisy Buchanan, Tom Buchanan.
Just little bios about each character.
And if you're following along,
you can put whatever you want in here.
And then I save the file, all right?
So I'm done for the morning.
I want to take a break
before I actually begin writing chapter one.
So I've saved those files
and if I head back over to my terminal
and I type git status again,
now Git tells me there's two files
that it's aware of,
but it's not tracking, okay?
So we've done step one, I've worked on stuff.
Now I wanna make a commit with what I've done.
Well, now we need to talk about a tiny bit of terminology.
Three different locations,
they're not actual physical locations,
working directory, staging area,
and the repository.
Let's start with this first one,
working directory.
That's just a fancy way of referring to the directory,
the place we're actually working on our project.
So for me, my working directory is this MyFirstNovel folder
and in our working directory,
I have two files at the moment.
I might have more,
I could have 100 files in here.
The working directory just refers
to this directory where I'm working.
Then we have the repository itself.
This is the .git folder.
Remember there is a .git folder here, ls -a.
There it is.
Inside of that folder at the moment,
there's some stuff that's just there,
some default contents,
but once they actually make a commit,
git commit changes what is in .git.
It actually adds new commits to that folder.
So when we actually make a commit,
we are updating that folder,
the actual Git repository.
Otherwise everything I've done so far
is just in the working directory.
And then there's this intermediate thing, this zone,
again, not a physical location, the staging area.
And this is where we add our changes to
before we make a commit.
So here's another flavor of diagram.
We have those three terms,
working directory, staging area, and repository.
On the left side in the working directory,
you can see a bunch of changes that I've made.
So hypothetically, I've been working for a while.
I've done some, you know, I'm working on a project,
some web development project
and I've changed seven files
and Git has noticed that.
So I've decided, okay,
there's actually two discreet things I was working on
and I'm going to make my first commit
with those bottom four files that I changed.
They have to do with the nav bar.
I updated the nav bar
or I created a new nav bar on our webpage.
So I stage those changes first
and I do that using the git add command.
Then I can make a commit.
And then same thing for these other changes.
I can stage them.
Then I make a commit
at which point I'm actually updating the .git folder.
So I know I'm kind of beating a dead horse,
but this is really important.
Two commands, git add is just going to stage changes
so that I then commit them.
And this git add command is pretty simple.
It's git, space, add
and then one or more files,
the name of a file that we've changed.
And we can do more, we can do multiple
if we separate them by spaces.
Otherwise we can just do git add file name.
So over here in my working directory,
I have these two files, right?
I've changed them, they exist.
They didn't exist earlier and Git noticed
and it tells me this.
Let me make this full screen here.
It says untracked files,
characters and outline.txt,
use git add file
to include in what will be committed.
Okay, so why don't we do that?
I'll add the first one.
So git add, and I can do auto complete
if I type something and then hit Tab.
So git add characters.txt.
Now let's type git status again.
I haven't made a commit.
All that I've done is stage the one file,
characters.txt to be committed,
but it's not yet committed.
So if I wanted to,
I could make a commit now
with just that one file that I changed,
but I'm gonna group them together
because you know, I've worked on them together,
they have to do with one another.
Unlike this example here
where I wanted to group things
into two individual commits,
I instead want to group everything on this project so far,
just two files into one commit.
So I'm gonna also add outline.txt
and then I'm gonna look at git status.
We always use git status.
It can never hurt anything.
It just reports back.
And you'll see whenever we make a commit,
those two files will be included.
So what we need to do next is cover git commit.
We need to learn how to make those commits.

--- Finally, The Git Commit Command! ---

Instructor: Okay, so now we're gonna talk
about the git commit command,
which is the command we actually use to make a commit
using whatever changes we have previously staged.
But before we actually run the command,
and I definitely recommend
you don't run git commit just yet.
I'll explain why.
Before we run it, we need to discuss commit messages.
Whenever we make a commit,
Git expects us to include a message
that describes or summarizes the changes
included in that snapshot in the given commit.
For example, when I grouped together these files,
the navbar changes, I staged them.
When I committed, in this example,
I added a message, "Add branded navbar."
Or here I change three files, I stage them.
I committed with the message,
"Add team members to about page."
So we'll talk more about writing good commit messages
and what makes a good commit message.
But for now, just know that a commit message
should summarize the changes included in that commit.
So over here on our first novel,
the project that I've been working on,
these two files, these two changes
are really just the creation of those files.
So a commit message might be something like
start novel or initialize characters and outline
or begin work on characters and outline.
Nothing super detailed because it's a very minor commit.
But now let's talk
about actually running the git commit command.
And again, I wanna emphasize
I recommend you don't run it just yet.
This is one option, git commit.
And this will make a commit
with whatever changes have been staged.
However, it's going to try and use your default editor,
whatever your default editor is on your machine,
and most or many students don't have one configured,
which is problematic because it will open up
in something called Vim,
which is a very, very not beginner friendly,
very crazy confusing editor in your terminal.
And if you don't know how to get out of Vim,
it can be very confusing.
If you happen to get in there,
it's :q will get you outta there.
Anyway, I don't recommend you run this yet.
There's another variant, rather than git commit,
which will pop up your editor and ask you for your message,
we can just give git the message at the same time.
So this -m flag, git commit -m,
and then we provide a message in quotes.
Git will use that message that we provide
and make a commit with it,
rather than this flavor which asks us for a message
as a secondary step.
At the end of the day,
there is no difference in the generated commit,
assuming you type the same message.
It's just two different ways
of getting to that same destination.
So I always recommend beginners start with this.
You don't have to configure an editor,
you don't have to worry about Vim or another text editor.
All you do is provide your message and hit enter.
Okay, so -m I believe it stands for message,
or at least that's what I tell myself it stands for.
It makes sense.
Git commit -m and then a message.
So let's try it.
Over here I have my changes are staged.
I'm ready to make my first commit.
So that's exactly what I'm going to do, git commit -m,
and then something simple
that summarizes what I've done in this commit.
How about something like "start work on outline,"
and basic characters or maybe just main characters.
Sure, "Start work on outline and main characters,"
and then I'll hit enter.
Okay, so now what happens here?
Well, let's type git status.
This is what I saw a moment ago.
Changes to be committed, no commits yet.
Now, when I type git status,
nothing to commit, working tree clean.
So this phrase, working tree clean means
that basically everything I've done in my folder
in the working directory Git knows about,
and Git has been tracking and it it's up to date.
Everything is in sync.
But as soon as I change a file,
the working tree is no longer clean,
which is not a bad thing.
But yeah, that's all that it means.
So I've now made my very first commit, first of many.
In the next video, we'll continue
by adding and committing and adding and committing.
We'll get more practice.
I'm gonna stop this video here just to keep it brief.
But just to reiterate,
when we make a commit, we provide a message.
I recommend for now using the -m flag
to provide the message in line.
Otherwise, if you use the regular old git commit command,
you can run into some trouble
if you haven't configured your editor.
And I'll include a video to show you
how to configure that if you're interested.
But it's not something you need to worry about for now.
Whatever message you do provide should summarize
the changes that are included in the commit.
And later on I'll have a video
on best practices for commit messages.
So that's it for this video.
Next up, we'll get more practice doing the same process,
change something, add, commit.

--- The Git Log Command (And More Committing) ---

Instructor: So now that we've made it
through our first commit,
let's repeat the process and hopefully speed it up.
We'll do some work, we'll add some changes
and then we'll make a commit.
So it's day two of writing my novel,
or maybe it's afternoon of day one,
and I've come back from lunch.
I have my outline.
I've flushed out the very basic characters,
the four characters so far that I've included,
and I'm gonna start working on chapter 1.
So I'm gonna make chapter 1 just a text file.
I'll just do it from within my text editor,
but I could do it from the command line,
it doesn't matter how,
and I'm just gonna save that file.
Maybe I'll put something in here like chapter 1.
Hmm, I'm not sure what I'm gonna write in there.
And of course, if I go over here to my terminal
what do we expect to see when I type git status?
Here it's telling me, as we've seen before,
that there's an untracked file called chapter1.txt.
Also, if I go into any of the other files,
like how about characters.txt or maybe the outline
and I type something else in here.
Let's just change a single character.
How about Jordan, I'm gonna make a lowercase J
and I'm going to save this file.
If I run git status
now we see something new.
It says there's a modified file, outline.txt.
It doesn't matter that I just changed the case of a letter.
I did change that file and git has been watching that file.
Unlike chapter1, which is an untracked file,
outline, it's already been added and committed previously,
so git knows about it and it says,
"Hey, you modified that file."
So let's say I actually continue to work,
though I'm not ready to do a commit or anything like that,
Ah, what should I do?
I'm gonna start on chapter 1.
I'm gonna just copy some of the text from the Great Gatsby.
This is all available these days online free and legally,
so I'm just gonna take some of this chapter 1,
if you really wanna follow along, you don't need to,
but if you want to, I'll include this link,
and then I'm just gonna paste this in my chapter 1.
Okay?
Simultaneously, I decide I need to do
a bit more on the outline, so I'll add some here.
There we go.
Here's a bit more work that I've done on the outline
to match some of the stuff that I've been working on
in chapter 1 so far.
Okay, so I'm gonna save both of those files.
And then I'm gonna go over here again to my terminal,
type git status,
and we see basically the same thing.
The files have changed.
I mean, git's not telling me right now
what has been modified in this file.
There is a way for us to see exactly what's changed,
but for now, all that it says
is something changed in outline.
So if I'm ready to make a commit, I have to decide,
you know, am I going to group those files together?
And I am because they both had to do with chapter 1
and the work I did on chapter 1.
So I'm going to add outline.txt,
and I'll do it in one go.
If I separate them by a space, I'll also add chapter1.txt.
And now if I type git status,
we see that whenever I do commit next,
both of these changes, new file chapter1
and the modifying, modification of outline,
both of those will be included in the next commit.
So I'm gonna commit,
git commit -m, what's my message here?
What did I do?
How about "begin work on chapter 1".
Okay? And type git status.
Quick, what do you think we'll see?
We saw it earlier.
Nothing to commit, working tree clean.
Okay, so the next thing I wanna talk about
is a command called git log.
And the git log command doesn't do anything,
it's much like git status, it just retrieves information.
And the information it retrieves to us
is a log of the commits for a given repository.
And in this repo we only have two commits.
Now there's a bunch of stuff in here for each commit.
Here is one commit,
here is another.
And for each one you can see the author,
the dates,
those, well the author and the email
are things that you can configure,
and we did configure early on,
so it just uses whatever your local git has configured
for username and email.
Then we have the dates
and then we have the commit message.
And then up top, this crazy looking thing
called the commit hash, we don't need to worry about for now
but definitely we will come back and reference.
And then here is the second commit.
So at this point, honestly git log is just a way for us
to demonstrate that when we ran git commit,
it did something, and that's kind of it for now.
So it's the next morning, I am very excited.
I, I know how I want to finish chapter 1.
So I'm going to start by just adding more to our outline.
There we go.
So I'll save again,
if you're following along,
you can just change a single character
and git is going to notice.
Now if I type git status, right, it tells us,
"Hey, you modified that file again."
Next up, now that I finished that outline for chapter 1,
I'm gonna go back to the actual file
and finish typing the chapter out,
which again, I'm just copying from the real Great Gatsby.
Okay, so I've got a lot more text in here.
Just took it from the Great Gatsby website,
and I'm gonna save.
And now I finished chapter 1, I outlined it,
and I'm ready to go through the same steps again and commit.
So I always start with git status,
and I'm gonna show you one other option
for how I can add these two files simultaneously
rather than having to add them by name.
If I do git add followed by a dot,
I actually have a slide on this.
Here we are,
git add dot will stage all changes at once.
So whatever we have unstaged at the moment,
they're not going to be committed,
when I use git add dot, both in this case,
but if I had 50 files that were modified,
all 50 would be staged.
And it can be useful but also if you've worked
on a bunch of things and, you know,
disparate features that aren't necessarily ready
to all be committed at once,
it's much better to be surgical when you make your commits.
But for now, I finished chapter 1.
The outline had to do with chapter 1, so I'll add both.
If I type git status,
we can see both of those have been modified.
And now I'll commit, git commit -m "finish chapter 1".
Great. Type git log just as proof.
And there it is, finish chapter 1.
Okay, so then I go to bed and I'm having a real rough time
with how long chapter 1 is,
and I'm thinking about it in at night as I'm in bed,
I'm like, "Yeah, I really need to fix that
in the next morning. I need to break this chapter up."
So that's what I decide to do.
I wake up and I move my outline around a bit
to reflect my new changes.
I decide that right here
I want to split my outline.
So I'm gonna add chapter 2
now starts right here.
So I'm just gonna move some content around.
Of course, by doing that and saving the file,
I've now dirtied our working tree,
meaning that we have some changes
that have not yet been committed.
Then I'll go to the chapter 1 file.
I'm gonna take half of this,
the second half,
and cut it out of here,
save this file.
And then I'm gonna make a chapter 2 file,
chapter2.txt and I'm going to paste that in there and save.
So now I have updated chapter 1,
I've updated the outline,
and I've created a new file, chapter 2.
If I saved all three files, which I did,
and I run git status, git tells us,
"Hey, there's three things that changed."
Really, two things that it knows for sure were modified
and a third untracked file that it's aware of vaguely,
it sees that it exists but it's not tracking the changes.
So I'm gonna add all of them
and we can use the same shortcut I showed you,
git add dot,
because they all have to do with the same thing,
it's just the same piece of work.
Something like when I commit my message will be, you know,
"split chapter 1 into 2 pieces"
or something like that.
Looks good.
Type git status, working tree clean,
and git log.
We see we have a new commit.

--- Committing Exercise ---

Instructor: So it's time to get some practice
with the concepts and commands I've covered in this section.
So of course you don't have to do any of this
but I highly recommend you do,
especially if you're new to git
and you haven't seen any of these commands before.
This is an opportunity for you to get some practice.
It's a simple exercise in terms of the content.
The actual files we'll be working with
are based around two shopping lists.
So there is a link in the resources for this video.
I recommend you open it up.
It contains a link to this exact page
that has the instructions I've typed up.
So there are steps, a step-by-step set of instructions
for what I'd like you to do
starting with make a new folder called shopping,
initialize a new git repo inside of it,
make sure you're not already in a git repo,
and then make a new file called yard.txt,
then make a second file groceries.txt,
make a commit that includes both empty files.
So a commit with both of those files.
And then I tell you the exact message you should use,
and if you deviate from that, it's not a big deal.
But anyway, I'm just putting it there
if you wanna follow that.
And then make some changes in the yard.txt file,
we actually add some content
and then we add some content to the groceries.
And you can just copy and paste from here.
And then make a second commit,
including only the changes from the groceries file.
And the message for the commit should say
"Add ingredients for tomato soup."
Then make a second commit
including only the changes from the yard file.
And that message should say add items needed for garden box.
And then next up
we're going to make some changes to both files.
We're going to add this line to the end of the yard file.
And then in the garden file,
we're going to change the quantity.
It did say two bags of potting soil.
We're going to update that to three.
And then once both of those are done,
we'll make a commit that includes both of those files.
And then you should use this message.
And then the very last thing
is to use some unnamed git command
that we've covered to display all of those commits.
And we should see three commits.
So that's a set of instructions, hopefully straightforward,
but don't feel bad if you don't remember the exact commands.
You can always reference them,
it's more about making sure you have
the conceptual flow down of how you make a commit.
Okay, so I highly recommend you try it
and stop the video now
because I'm going to just go through the process myself
if you want to watch.
But again, I really strongly,
as strongly as I can through this prerecorded video,
recommend that you try this on your own.
And then if you get stuck, you can check out this solution.
Okay, so step one, create a new folder called shopping
and init a repo inside of it.
So I have an empty folder called exercises
and I'll make a shopping directory and CD into it.
Make sure it's not in a git repo, I'm not.
So I'll run git init to make me that new repo.
Then it says make a new file called yard.txt.
So I'll do that from the command line,
although you don't have to.
But here we are, touch yard.txt.
And then make another new file called groceries.
Okay, touch groceries
.txt.
And then it says make my first commit
that includes both empty files and then use this message.
And I'll just copy that message, I guess.
Okay.
So now if I run git status,
there are two files that currently are not in my repo,
is currently not tracking.
So before I can make a commit,
I can't make a commit right now, there's nothing to commit.
I need to stage those files.
So I'll do a git add groceries and yard.
I can do 'em separately or just in a single line.
Now I type git status.
Great, I'll do a git commit
'cause that was the next instruction
using this message I copied.
Create yard and groceries lists.
All right, so now I have one commit down.
The next instruction says,
"In the yard file, add these two lines."
So I'll copy that and I need to open the yard file.
Technically I could do this from the terminal,
but I'm gonna use,
I mean you could just go to your text editor
and open the terminal or open the file rather or
I can use the code shortcut
if I'm using VS Code and you've configured that code.
And then I'll just do dot,
that will open the entire directory for me in VS Code.
And here it is, I have my two files.
So in the yard file I'm going to paste this.
Two bags of potting soil, one bag of worm castings.
And then in the groceries file,
I'm gonna copy and paste this.
Okay, and save both of them.
And then it says,
make a new commit including only the changes
from the groceries file.
And this is what the message should be.
So we made changes to two files,
but we only want these changes in this first commit.
So let's see groceries file.
If we do git status, we see both of them have been changed.
I'm going to add, I'll clear just to put this up top,
git add groceries.
And that's all I'm going to add.
So this will be included in the commit
and I'll make that commit.
I'll use -m and just do it from the command line in one go.
Add ingredients for tomato soup.
And now we see that we still have those changes from yard
that are not committed, that's the next piece.
Make a second commit
including only the changes to the yard file.
And it should have this message:
"Add items needed for garden box."
So I'll copy that.
Git add the yard file, got commit -m.
There we go, add items needed for garden box.
And now we have no uncommitted changes.
Okay, and then the next step is to add the following line
to the end of the groceries file.
So we need to buy a couple of seed potatoes,
just potatoes that I'll buy from the grocery store.
So it goes in the groceries list.
Okay, and then also I need to update the yard file
so that it says three bags of potting soil instead of two.
So there we go.
And of course now if I type git status,
two files, both of them have been modified.
So now it says make a commit that includes
both of those files,
so changes to both files with this message.
Add items needed to grow potatoes.
Okay, so I can do a git,
I don't know why I did another status, I just did that.
I can do a git add and then do both file names
or I can do a git add dot to just add everything
which is these two files.
And then I'll do my git commit -m with that message.
Okay, and then the last piece,
unfortunately I just realized there's a small typo here,
is to use an unspecified command that we learned
to display a list of all the commits.
This should actually say four
because we've made four commits.
The first empty one,
that's the one I forgot to count when I made this.
So let me update that very quickly.
That should say four instead of three.
Let's refresh.
And there we are. You should see four.
Okay, so let's try this. Let's go over here.
And the command is git log.
And I should now see four commits.
Here's the first one. Create the empty lists.
Here's what I added to the grocery list
for tomato soup ingredients.
Here's what I added to the garden or the yard list.
And then here's what I added to both of them.
And that's the end of the exercise.
I hope that you're able to go through that
and not have to follow along with me step by step,
although there's no shame in that either.
Go get more practice with this
throughout the rest of the course.
This is really, really the bread and butter of git.
Add, commit, add, commit.
We do it all day long or at least many times a day.
Okay.

--- Navigating The Git Documentation ---

Lecturer: So let's start this section off
with a nice and easy topic, The Git Docs.
Yes, this is a very funny joke because these are pictures
of doctors, but we're not actually talking about doctors.
We're talking about the Git Documentation.
Can you believe how funny that is?
So dumb jokes aside,
we're talking about the Git Documentation
which you may want to reference at some point
if you have questions or you wanna learn more
about one of the commands that I'm showing you.
So the docs are accessible at git-scm.com.
I never remember that.
I just google Git and then I end up on this webpage.
And then we want to go to Documentation
pretty much every time.
That's where I go.
And you know, I'm not going to About,
I don't need to see the advantages of Git compared
to something else, I'm already using it.
I just want the docs.
Now there are a couple of sections here,
and most of the time
I end up looking at the Reference Manual.
Occasionally this book called Pro Git.
Pretty much never the Videos.
So the Reference Manual, we'll start there,
is exactly what it says.
It's a reference manual, it's all the Git commands
and main topics.
It is not ordered, it's not a step-by-step guide,
it's just a reference.
So for example, we've been using git-commit.
If I wanna learn more about git-commit,
I can click on this, I'll zoom in.
It tells us roughly what it does,
record changes to the repository.
Here's a more detailed description.
But then as I scroll down this is what I end up looking at
occasionally on the docs, all of these options.
So this is one command, git-commit,
and we've used one option, which is -m.
Could find that on here somewhere, -m,
which is short for --message=&lt;msg>.
Use the given &lt;msg> as the commit message.
We already know that, hopefully, you know how to do that.
But here is where we would find that information.
So there are lots of options
for every single one of the Git commands I've shown you,
and it's honestly overwhelming.
I use very few of them, but there are a lot available.
So if you ever have questions about them,
if you see somebody use a command, git-commit
and then the -z flag and you have no idea what that is,
you can read about it here.
Also, if we keep scrolling down, we will find examples.
So there are some examples that show, you know,
how to use git-commit in this example.
But on, you know, another page,
if we're looking at git-log,
there will be examples for git-log
or for some of the more advanced commands,
that can be helpful.
And that's pretty much it.
I mean there's Discussion down at the bottom.
Basically for every Git command,
we deal with this really thorough,
but also intimidating set of documentation.
So if you are looking for something more educational
or more sort of teachy, you can go to the book.
And this is grouped into topics that are ordered
and it explains things.
So for example, we haven't yet covered Branching,
but if you wanted to learn more about Branching
or if my explanation is insufficient
once you get to that section,
you can read more and have diagrams
and sort of step-by-step explanation here.
And it's pretty, well, I shouldn't say pretty,
it's very well written.
It's a well done book and it is a nice antidote to the dry
and you know, purely reference manual documentation.
The book really does have a clear path through it.
So I don't necessarily recommend reading the entire book.
But I mean, if I come here occasionally
when I have questions about things,
some commands that I haven't used in a while
or configuring things,
the book is very helpful to explain them.
And then if you just have a one-off question
about what is that flag
or is there a way to do X with the git-log command,
you can go read about it on the Reference Manual.
Just do your best to stay sane while reading these docs.
There's so many options,
so many flags for every single command.
All right, so that's how we get to the docs.
Git-scm.com, Documentation, Reference Manual or Book.

--- Keeping Your Commits Atomic ---

Instructor: One of the more common pieces of Git advice
that many a blog article has been written about
is to keep your commits atomic.
So what does that mean?
That's what I wanna talk about in this video
and I'll show you an example.
In this context, the word atomic does not mean
having to do with an atom,
but rather of something being irreducible or of a, I guess,
a base unit, a single component,
that makes up a larger system.
So if that doesn't mean anything to you,
just read the first paragraph here.
When possible,
your commits should encompass a single feature,
a single change, a fix.
In other words, try and keep each commit focused
on a single thing.
And this is important,
especially if you're working with code
and you're writing code, you're adding features
or fixing bugs.
It's super important to keep things as atomic as possible
to keep each commit focused on one thing.
Again, that does not mean one file,
that means one feature, one thing that you worked on.
So lemme show you an example.
Here, I've got my first novel repository going still,
and I'm gonna do two things this morning.
First of all, I'm gonna add some inspiration,
some visual inspiration,
since I'm such a, I guess, a budding writer,
I wanna have a little mood board.
So I've actually downloaded a couple of photos
that I want to use, just, 1920s esque photos.
This is the best I could find
with all the copyright restrictions I have to worry about.
So I'm gonna make a new folder in here,
I'll just do it through Finder, I'll call it mood board.
And then I'm just gonna put those images in there.
So now I have that folder in there and of course,
if I type git status git is gonna tell me,
hey, there's a whole new directory mood board
that I see but I'm not tracking.
So I keep working on my novel and I decide,
I'm not sure if I like the name Gatsby,
I think I wanna change Gatsby to be Catsby with a C.
So I'm gonna change that across all my files.
How am I gonna do that?
Well, with VS Code, it's super simple.
If I go to this little icon here,
there's also a shortcut I can never remember.
I can search for Gatsby,
and I can replace it across all files.
So it found it in four different files, right?
The character's file, chapter one, chapter two, the outline,
and I'll replace it with Catsby, like that,
and then I can click this button.
However you do this, if you are following along,
I'm just making a change across a bunch of files.
So it's asking me, are you sure you wanna replace
18 occurrences across four files?
Sure.
Alright, so now we see it changed here.
Catsby in the character's file, somewhere in here, I'm sure,
here we go.
When I looked once more for Catsby, he had vanished.
So we can trust that it changed across all those files.
So now I'm ready to start committing, it's later in the day
or maybe I'm gonna take a lunch break.
So I type git status and we have a couple of things, right?
We have four files that have been modified
plus a whole new directory
that contains a bunch of files inside,
well, three image files.
So I'm not just gonna add all of this to one single commit,
that breaks this rule
or this pattern of wanting to keep each commit
focused on a single thing.
Here, it's very easy for me to break this up
and just say okay, my first commit,
the order doesn't really matter,
but one commit I'll make will be around changing
Gatsby to Catsby, that was one thing that I did.
And then the other commit that I'll make
will be around adding to my mood board
or creating my mood board.
So why don't I start by just adding chapter one
and chapter two and the characters and outline.
So notice I did not do git add dots,
'cause I don't want the mood board.
So now if I type git status,
I've got these four things staged for my next commit
and now I'm gonna commit.
So git commit.
And those four files, those four changes,
they all had to do with changing Gatsby to Catsby.
So I'd go with replace Gatsby or how about
rename Gatsby to Catsby.
Okay.
I type git status,
and we still have some uncommitted changes,
some stuff I've worked on that Git does not know about.
It's a whole directory, that's what the slash means.
So if I wanted to, I could add specific files
from inside of there, git add moodboard/,
and then I could type the name of one of those files
like rolls, it's a Rolls Royce image,
so I could do it that way,
or I can just add the entire directory like this
and I'll just add the entire thing.
Now if I type git status,
you can see all three image files have been added.
They are going to be committed whenever I commit,
so I'll commit now.
Git commit -m, what should I do?
How about start off or create mood board?
Sure, create mood board.
There we go.
So I just made two separate commits
instead of one larger commit,
following this idea, keeping our commits atomic,
breaking them down into some sort of
single, irreducible unit or piece,
instead of having like a multipurpose commit
that just includes everything you did at once,
break it down into smaller pieces.
This matters a lot when you're working on code,
especially when you're working with a team of people.
And you may need to undo some of the things that you write.
You may introduce a bug at some point
and if you boiled in a whole bunch of changes
into one commit, rolling back that commit
could undo a ton of work.
But if you kept your commits atomic, single purpose,
then if somebody needs to undo one of them,
you don't lose all that other work.
It also makes your code easier to review
if you do or when you do code reviews.
It's just generally a practice you wanna follow,
group things together in a way that makes sense.
Keep things small, but don't just break them up
to be as tiny as possible,
keep them focused on a single thing.

--- Commit Messages: Present Or Past Tense? ---

Instructor: Next up a quick video
on commit messages and which tense,
present or past tense, you should use while writing them,
and does it even matter?
This is kind of a weird thing in Git.
It always baffled me when I was starting out,
but the GIT documentation officially recommends
that you use present tense imperative style commit messages.
So present tense, you know meaning verbs
like make something or change x, fix x,
instead of past tense, fixed, changed, updated.
So imperative style though
or the imperative mood is best illustrated probably
by the quote from the documentation.
Describe your changes in imperative mood.
"make xyzzy do frotz"
instead of "makes xyzzy do frotz"
or "I changed xyzzy to do frotz."
Write things as if you're giving orders
to the code base to change its behavior.
Personally, I always found this weird.
I still do, even if I follow this a lot of the time,
it just doesn't seem natural to me.
You don't have to do this, of course,
this is all just convention, just a practice
you can get in the habit of.
There's a lot of debate over this,
but, again, this is sort of
the official recommendation from the Git docs.
Here's a blog post written by Eumir Gaspar where he talks
about the two, well, I guess there's more than two options,
but the two common options using the present tense
or the past tense, and the present tense
as we've already talked about, is what Git recommends.
And one of the main reasons people use it is
that Git actually generates its own messages at some point.
When we talk about merging,
it will generate a commit message that looks
like this, merge poll requests, blah, blah, blah.
So it says merge in present tense.
But honestly, in my opinion, I kind of feel
like past tense makes more sense
to me because you're making a commit
with the work that you have done.
It's finished, you're committing it.
But honestly, at the end of the day,
it doesn't really matter as long as you are consistent
or, more importantly,
as long as you're following the pattern set out
by whatever organization you're working with.
If it's a company or an open-source project,
if everyone else is doing present tense
and they ask you to do present tense,
you should do present tense.
So I try and stick with present tense when I'm teaching.
You know, if we type git log,
the commit messages I have been writing are, you know
split x or rename or create or begin.
So those are present tense imperative,
but the community is somewhat split on this.
If you look at this popular stack
overflow post from 10 years ago,
the top answer says you definitely should use present tense.
But then the second answer says you should
almost always use the past tense.
So that's number one and number two directly in conflict.
Anyway, this video is going on longer than it needs to.
I just wanted to make that point that
in the real world, you'll likely come
across present tense imperative, commit messages.
And as I mentioned, you don't have to follow this pattern,
especially in your own personal use.
But if you're working at a company
or on an open-source project, definitely pay attention
to the guidelines for writing commit messages.

--- Escaping VIM & Configuring Git's Default Editor ---

-: So if you recall, when I first introduced git commit,
I said that you could use this command, git commit,
on its own, but I recommended against it for the time being
because it will open up the default editor
and that default editor is likely to be Vim,
which I'll just demonstrate very quickly
so you can see what that experience is like.
I'm going to come over to my little,
my first novel project and make a very simple change.
I don't think I have any changes at this moment,
but I see a typo right here in my outline.
So I'm just gonna fix it.
Nick goes home and sees Catsby for the first time.
So I'm gonna save that, git status, okay.
Then I'm gonna do a git add outline.txt.
Then I'm gonna do git commit without the -m.
I'm not gonna pass in a message or any of that.
Now, let's see what happens when I hit enter.
Hmm.
Let me full screen this
so you can get a better picture of what's going on.
This is called Vim.
It's an editor.
It's built into the terminal.
It's very, it can be very confusing
because I can't just start typing.
It's asking me to enter a commit message,
but if I try typing right now,
it's actually not going to type a message.
First, I have to enter what's called the insert mode
by typing I, so if I just hit the letter I.
Now at the bottom left,
can you see that here it says inserts?
By the way, this really is not the time
to be teaching you Vim.
I'm not expecting you to learn it,
but if you end up in this situation,
I want you to know how to get out of it.
But we're gonna change our default editor,
so don't worry about the actual commands.
So I hit I, so that I'm in insert mode,
and now I can start typing and leave a commit message.
So what did I do?
I fixed a typo.
So "Fix Typo," just like that.
Alright? Fix typo in outline maybe.
Sure.
Now, how do I get out of here?
Well, it's also confusing.
First I hit the escape key one time to leave insert mode.
Next, I need to leave Vim entirely.
And to do that, there's a couple of options,
but I'm gonna do colon, W, and then Q.
Oh gosh.
So W stands for write.
Q stands for quit.
So this is write, basically save these changes,
and quit Vim, it's very confusing.
Now I'm gonna hit enter.
Whew.
And we made that commit,
and you can see fix typo in outline.
If I type git log, fix typo in outline.
So it looks exactly the same.
It's a commit.
Nothing different.
It's just the way that we made it
and passed in that message was a lot worse.
Now, there are times where using this message flag,
the -m flag, is not gonna cut it.
If we need to type a much longer commit message,
I mean you could cram it all into a single line,
but on larger projects and large code bases,
open source projects, your commit messages
might actually look something like this.
Multiple lines, maybe paragraphs, bullet points.
So that's not gonna cut it,
just passing it in inside of quotes.
You don't wanna be typing something like that
in your terminal on a single line.
So we do wanna configure this version,
git commit, so that it opens up an editor
where we actually feel comfortable typing paragraphs,
where we could type something like this.
And for the majority of students
and the majority of developers out there,
VIM is not that editor.
So I'd like to use VS Code as my editor.
I've been using it in the course, no surprise there.
But you can configure GI to use any, really any editor.
You can use VS Code or Sublime Text
or any of the other editors that are out there.
I'll show you how to do that right now.
So if you go to the git documentation,
there's this page called git command, set up and config.
It's on the appendix for the book.
I'll just include a link to this if you're curious.
And just like before, when we configured our username
and the email address for our git configuration,
we can do the same thing for the editor.
So depending on what editor you're using,
there's a table here and I'm looking for VS Code,
which is right here, Visual Studio Code.
And this is the command I need to type.
So git config, we'll do global
so that it applies to every repo,
not just the current repo.
Core.editor is what we're configuring.
And I want it to be code, which is the name
of VS Code, Visual Studio Code.
And then I'll talk about this --wait in a moment.
But basically we just copy this line.
So if you're using Sublime, copy this line.
On a Mac or if you're on a PC, copy this line.
If you're using something else, text edit on a Mac,
this is the line, but I'm gonna use VS code.
So now I'll head over to my terminal,
I'll paste this in here.
Okay, we don't see anything change,
but now let's make another commit.
What could we do that won't take too much time?
Okay, here's a simple one.
I have some extra white space in chapter two,
just at the top.
So I'm just gonna get rid of that and save.
And now I'll type git status.
Alright, it says I modified that file.
All I did was delete some empty lines,
but that's still modification.
So I'm gonna add that, git add chapter2.txt.
Now, I would usually just use git commit -m
because it's really just a simple message.
We did something so simple,
there's no point in typing a paragraph, right?
You wanna keep your commit messages as short as possible,
but there are times where you need more information.
This is not really one, but I'm gonna do just git commit
without the -m flag just to demonstrate
that hopefully our editor is configured to be VS code.
Hmm. Let's see.
There's a problem with the editor code --wait.
So this is a problem stemming from the fact
that my terminal does not know what code
the command code is referring to.
So it's telling me here, command not found.
Basically, if I go into VS code, I can fix that.
I'm gonna open the command pallet, which is command shift P,
and then I'm gonna type code,
and I want this, install code command in path.
Okay?
So it says shell command code
successfully installed in path.
So now hopefully this works.
It knows what the command "code" is referring to.
So let's try committing again.
Aha. Now it's opened up in VS Code.
And you can see over here,
it's waiting for me to close this file.
So that's why we had to add that --wait right here.
We wanted to wait until we finish editing
and save our commit message.
So I can type my commit in here.
Also, I didn't mention this earlier.
Everything that starts with a hash
or the octothorp character will be ignored.
It's a comment.
It's not included in the commit.
So, in here, what did we just do?
I've already forgotten.
Oh, we removed white space from chapter two.
So you know,
remove extra white space
or extra lines in chapter two or something.
Well, that kind of sounds like
we actually deleted lines of chapter two.
How about extra blank lines?
Sure. Okay.
So now I'm gonna save this file,
if that's the commit message I want,
but I could put a lot more in here
and maybe just to demonstrate that I will,
why don't I just copy one of these example commit messages
that I was talking about?
I'm just gonna copy this entire thing over
and this is just to show you that we can do this.
Alright, so here's my much longer commit message.
All these lines, paragraphs of text, some bullet points.
They won't be formatted in any particular way.
I have to do this manually, right?
If I want that bullet point, it's just a dash.
But anyway, this is my commit message here.
Really just the first line that matters.
I'm gonna save, I'm gonna close the file,
and then over here, it now made the commit.
It was waiting and now it's not, it finished.
So if I type git log, what do we see?
Ooh, well, we made that commit.
It is here, but it's taking up so much space.
That's really, really annoying.
So in the next video,
I'll show you how we can use git log with a small tweak
so that we don't have to see the entire commit message
in the case of a very long commit message.
Anyway, we set up the editor,
we configured it to use VS Code in this video,
if you're doing something else like Sublime Text,
follow the instructions here.
I'll include this link in the description
if you wanna check it out.
But you can avoid this for the most part
by just using -m until you really need to type
a longer commit message,
which is not all that common when you're starting out.
Once you start working on larger projects though,
it's definitely important to be able
to open up and write messages in an editor.
Okay.

--- A Closer Look At The Git Log Command ---

Instructor: In this video,
I want to talk about the docs one more time,
and, specifically, how we can learn more about git log,
which just gives us a log
of the commits in a given repository.
And, as we saw when I added a very,
very long commit message,
we see the entire thing here.
Now, shortly, we will want to to see these commits
and, specifically, we're going to want to know
these commit hashes.
Spoiler, we need those in order to revisit a commit
or undo a commit or check out or take a look at a commit.
So, we need those, and if we have hundreds of commits
and they all have these really long messages,
that could be really frustrating.
So, there are some options for how we use git log.
So, let's go to the documentation.
Let's go to reference and we'll find log.
Here it is.
I'll zoom in a bit.
As we know, it shows us commit logs.
But, there's quite a bit to how it works
and there's a lot that I just don't know about it
because I don't use most of these features.
Just like with most git commands, there are tons of options.
But, the one I'm interested in for now,
we scroll down.
Could also find it in the examples, I'm pretty sure,
down at the bottom.
I mean, look at this, this is crazy, the number of options.
Just absurd.
You can filter things out based on
who wrote the commits, when they were committed.
I believe you can order them differently,
but what we are after-
all right, well, I had to search for it,
but this is what we're after.
Formatting the commits.
These flags, including --pretty allow us to pretty-print,
or change, the format of the logs,
how they're printed out.
And, specifically, I usually use this option, one line.
So, --oneline, which is actually shorthand
for --pretty=oneline--abbrev commit.
So, what does this mean?
We can just take one piece at a time just to show you.
Abbrev commit just shows us a shorter version
of that commit hash.
So, if I do git log --abbrev commit,
it's hard to see much of a difference.
But, here, I'm only getting a small piece
compared to what we got before
of each one of those commit hashes.
But, we're actually after a bit more than that.
We want one line.
So, when we do --pretty=oneline,
we have these different options for pretty.
-: -pretty medium or fuller. Email.
These are all things that we can format in the response,
but I just wanted to show you one line.
So, I like to use the shorthand, --oneline,
but just know that it's actually shorthand
for pretty=oneline and abbreviated commit.
Let me just show that.
git log --oneline.
If I can type it correctly.
And, there we go. Oh, so much better.
Look at that.
You can see one line of each commit message,
which is why your first line of a commit message,
even if it's a super long one,
the first line should explain,
it should summarize the commit.
So, remove extra blank lines.
That's what we did,
even though, if we actually look at the entire message,
there's a whole bunch of other stuff.
It's very important,
or I shouldn't say very important,
but it's conventional.
And, you should follow this pattern
of having that first line be the summary of the commit,
and then any other information comes afterwards
separated by a return.
So, git log --oneline.
It's a nice way to look at our history
and it's not just about, you know, remembering,
"Oh, that was such a cute message I wrote."
It's actually important to be able to do this
because, shortly, we will be revisiting commits
and we want to look at this history
so that we can figure out where to time travel back to.
But, for now, we're just reminiscing.
So, that's git log.
The docs, as I just showed you, are so overwhelming.
I mean, there's so much you can do with git log.
I have carpal tunnel just from scrolling down this page.
So, don't feel intimidated.
Or, do feel intimidated,
but know that I am also intimidated by this page.
Whichever makes you more comfortable.

--- Committing With A GUI ---

Instructor: Next up, totally optional,
like most of this section, just has to do with committing.
I'm gonna show you how to make a commit
using a GUI like GitKraken,
and even if you're not interested in using a GUI,
I still think it's worth checking out,
because these GUIs can help show you your commits.
They help you visualize things,
but also it's nice to know that there are different ways
of interacting with Git, and at the end of the day,
we're still just working with that .git folder.
It's just a different interface,
different way of interacting with it.
So I'm using GitKraken.
I had a whole video on this early on
where I talked about how to install it.
It's very simple.
You download it for free, and that's kind of it.
And I'm just gonna open up this repo
that we've been working in, my first novel.
So if you have any repo you've created by now,
whether it's from an exercise or you're following along,
you have your own novel,
whatever it is, we can open it with GitKraken.
So here's GitKraken.
I'm going to go to open a new repository.
So if you open it up for the first time,
it will probably look like this.
It will ask you to open a repository.
And then here is that folder I navigated to.
I'm sorry I can't zoom in easily,
but I just found my repository.
So that same folder, my first novel, and I'm gonna open it.
And there we are.
We see my commit history right here.
So right now, we're just visualizing the commits.
This is basically what we see with a Git log.
Unfortunately, it's not letting me zoom in much more either,
but I hope you can see that.
So we have our first one,
start work on outline and main characters,
all the way up to remove extra blank lines in chapter two.
But what I wanna show you is how we make a new commit.
So right now, our working tree is clean.
I haven't made any changes at this point.
I haven't diverged from what Git has committed,
as you can see.
But let's make some changes.
What should we do?
I'm gonna add some more to the characters file.
So I just added some information about Myrtle Wilson,
and here's some more information about George Wilson,
two characters in the Great Gatsby
that come up in chapter two.
All right, so I'm gonna save that,
and how about I add something to our moodboard?
So I have these images in here.
Let's add another image.
Okay, so I downloaded two more images,
one of alcohol and one of a billboard,
thematically related in some way to the Great Gatsby.
They're part of my moodboard,
and both also licensed for me to use.
So I'm gonna add those both into this moodboard folder.
Okay, so I've made a couple of changes,
and obviously, well I shouldn't say obviously,
but hopefully, you're aware
that I could check to see my status by using git status,
and I would see that we modified characters.txt
and that there are two new files in moodboard
which are not being tracked.
But this video is about using the GUI.
If we take a look at the GUI, I get this message
that says three file changes in working directory.
So I can click here to view those file changes,
or I can just click here where it says work in progress,
and I wish I could make this larger,
but what we see is unstaged files,
characters.txt, and then moodboard bar
and moodboard billboard, the two images.
And you'll see that there's a little icon
here with a pencil.
That means I modified or edited that file.
And here, this little plus sign means it's a new file.
So I wanna make a commit, first,
how about just with the characters changes.
So I wanna stage characters, so I'm gonna click stage.
Okay, so at this point, I have staged that one file,
and actually, if I type git status over here,
what do we see?
Changes to be committed, characters.txt.
So it was the same exact thing
as me typing git add characters.
But instead, I clicked stage,
and then I'm gonna make my commit.
So this first commit is just characters,
so I add my commit message right there
or I can type it over here,
and my message will be something like
add Wilsons to characters list.
Okay?
Or, yeah, that's fine.
Add the Wilsons, maybe the Wilsons,
So I added two of them, all right?
And then I'll commit changes to that one file.
And we see a new commit here,
add the Wilsons to character list.
And if I type git status, we now made a commit.
We don't have this characters.txt staged anymore.
And if I type git log, there it is.
Add the Wilsons to characters list.
So let's do a second commit now with the moodboard changes,
so I'm gonna stage that new bar image
and the billboard image,
and then I group them together by staging them,
and I'll make my commit,
I don't know, add more, or how about expand,
add two images to moodboard or something like that.
Nothing amazing.
But here's where I write that commit message,
and here's where I commit.
Before I do that, what do you expect me to see
when I type git status?
This is what we saw before, two untracked files,
but now, they're both going to be committed.
They are both staged because I clicked the stage button.
So same process, just a different interface.
I made changes, then I click to stage and I click to commit,
or I use git add to stage and git commit to commit.
All righty?
So I'm gonna click commit changes to two files,
and there we are.
We have a new commit show up,
and if I do git log, let's do our one line.
There it is.
Add two images to moodboard,
add the Wilsons to character list.
So that's just a quick intro to using a tool like GitKraken.
Of course, the interface changes
if you're using a different app,
like SourceTree or, what else is there?
GitTower? There's a couple of them. I can't remember.
They all are similar, though.
You click to stage, and then you click to commit,
you type a message in,
and this is just a nice educational tool, honestly,
especially when we get to branching and merging,
the diagrams over here are really helpful,
but at this point, it's just another way
of doing what we already know how to do.

--- Fixing Mistakes With Amend ---

Instructor: Next up, amending commits.
Occasionally when you're working with git,
you may create a new commit
and then realize just a moment too late
that you forgot to include a relevant file in the commit.
Or another thing that can happen is you make a commit
and then you read over the commit message
and you realize too late that you have a typo.
You wrote something wrong in that commit message.
So there are a couple of ways of fixing those problems,
but the easiest one, the one I'm showing in this video,
is to amend the commit.
So this allows us to edit, or to redo, to update
just the previous commit.
So this doesn't work if you made a mistake 10 commits ago.
This is only if you made a mistake just one commit ago.
So here's how it works.
When you make a commit,
here on my slides I'm doing commit -m.
I made some commit,
then I realize, shoot, I forgot to include a file.
So I add that file, I stage it,
and then I get commit --amend
and amend is going to redo the previous commit.
You can read about it on the docs,
although as always it's a little bit intimidating.
I'll search for it on here.
Amend,
replace the tip of the current branch
by creating a new commit.
We haven't talked about branches, but creating a new commit.
It's prepared as usual.
The message from the original commit
is used as the starting point instead of an empty message.
I don't know if that's at all helpful to read.
I'm just gonna show it to you.
So let's go ahead and make a mistake.
I'm going to add a little heading to every file.
So at the top,
I just want it to say outline, just as an example,
and then I'll add some space in there, something like this.
I'm gonna do that for all my other files.
Chapter one, two, and characters.
So let's do it for characters in here.
So there I have a change in this file.
Here's chapter one, or chapter two rather.
So that's chapter two and then chapter one.
Okay, so I've made those changes,
just added a little heading to each one of those files.
If I type git status,
of course we see we modified four files.
So let's go ahead and stage some of these files.
Let's do chapter one.
Let's do chapter two.
I'll make this full screen and let's do the characters file,
but I'm going to deliberately
pretend to forget the outline file.
So I'll add those three files.
They should be staged
and normally, I would check like I just did with git status
and realize, oh, I forgot that file,
but let's say I didn't do that and I commit.
So git commit.
I'll just do a -m commit,
add heading to all files,
or add headings to all files like that.
Alrighty and then I realize, oh no, I forgot my outline.
So we can use that amend option that I showed you.
We need to add this file, so we're going to stage it.
Again, this only works if I haven't made another commit.
I can't go back
and edit a commit from, you know, 10 commits ago,
but I did just make that commit and I'm going to amend it.
So I'll add that file, but I'm not gonna commit like normal.
I'm gonna do git commit --amend.
All right?
And this is going to open up in VS Code
because that's what I've configured my editor to be
and it opens up the previous commit message
and this allows me to edit that commit message.
So if I had a typo in here, I could change it.
I could, you know, if I misspelled,
sometimes that's the reason for amending.
You might not stage any new files.
You might just wanna fix a commit message.
Just git commit --amend.
That will open up in whatever editor you've used.
Hopefully you've configured it so that it's not Vim,
or hopefully you know how to use Vim.
So I have VS Code to go back
and watch a video where I did that if you need it
and now I can change the message if needed,
but if I don't wanna change the message, I wanna leave it,
which I do
and I just want to include that new files or files.
In this case, it's just the outline.
All I need to do is save this file and close it.
So I'm not gonna change the commit at all.
You can see it's also put modified outline.txt in here.
That's now going to be included.
I'll close outta there and there we are.
Four files changed, that's what it said in that commit.
Previously it was just three, but now I amended that commit.
I basically redid it and I included the outline.
All right, so there's two reasons to do this.
One is to include files changes that you forgot,
that you somehow messed up in the previous commit.
The other option is just to redo the commit message,
or you could do both of them at the same time.
You just need to add --amend
and that allows you to redo the previous commit.

--- Ignoring Files w/ .gitignore ---

Instructor: When you're working on a project
and you're using Git,
there are often situations
where you have files, directories
that you just don't want Git to know about
or to track at any point.
You want them to be completely ignored
and there's a mechanism for doing this.
We can create a particular file called .gitignore,
but before we go into that,
let's talk about why you might want this.
One of the most common situations
is if you're working on an application,
you're writing code where you're using API keys,
credentials, any sort of application secret
that is tied potentially to a credit card like from AWS
or some API that you're using
where you don't want those to get out into the world.
So you put them in a separate file
and if you push your code up to GitHub,
which I realize we haven't talked about,
but if you share that code and you make it public,
you don't want that file to be included.
So you'll still have the file yourself locally
but you don't want Git to track it.
Other things include operating system files.
So on a Mac there are these pesky .DS_Store files
that have nothing to do with your project or your code.
They just show up in directories.
They're system hidden files,
so you don't want to track those with Git.
There are similar files on Windows with a different name.
Other things, log files
or any files that are output by your application
that could easily be generated again.
So if you have an application when you run it,
it generates some, you know, reports every single day
and you regenerate that report on demand,
you don't really don't need Git
to track that and save that report
because you can regenerate that report, if that makes sense.
And then lastly,
a really common scenario is dependencies or packages.
So if you've ever worked with Node or Python
or really any well any language
and you work with a bunch of dependencies that you download
and install, those do not need to be tracked by Git.
That could be hundreds
or maybe thousands of different folders
and files that you can easily go and get at any point.
You don't need to bother tracking the dependencies themself.
So I'm gonna show you an example of how we do this.
As I mentioned, the mechanism is through this file
with a very particular name.
It's a hidden file that we create .gitignore
and if we put that really anywhere in a repository
but traditionally we'll put it
in the root of the repository, the top of it,
although it doesn't have to be there,
we create a file with that name.
Git will look for that file and inside of it
we can tell Git what to ignore.
So we can put exact file names.
So the first bullet point here is .DS_Store,
Git will ignore a file with that name.
We can give it folder names by putting a slash at the end.
And we can also do fancier patterns.
For example, this line here, *.log,
this is a wild card that will match anything.
I think anything except for a slash.
It will match any character
followed by the extension .log.
So this allows you to tell Git, ignore all log files.
I don't want to have to write them out.
I don't know what their names will be.
Just anything with .log.
So I'll just quickly show you some examples.
Again, we haven't really gone into GitHub at all
but on GitHub there are projects
and pretty much every single project here
is going to have a .gitignore file.
And inside we see some of what I talked about .DS_Store.
We see directories like the reports directory, node modules,
if you ever work with Node,
that's where all the packages are installed.
So we're ignoring that.
Here's another example.
The app signal, if you're familiar with that,
.gitignore, there it is.
And there's stuff in here,
particular files and folder names.
They're different because this is an Android application
versus Faker I was showing you as a JavaScript app.
Here's TensorFlow,
another really popular open source project
instead of here .gitignore, right?
And then we see similar stuff
but now some Python specific files
and folders that they're telling Git to always ignore.
So I'm gonna demonstrate this
and to do this I'm actually gonna make a new repository.
It doesn't really make sense to ignore things in my novel.
Maybe it does, but I'm just gonna make a new demo
and make a simple node application.
So I'm not in a Git repository now,
I'm gonna make a directory.
I'll just call this GitIgnoreDemo.
I'll cd in there.
I'll type git status.
Okay, good.
It's not one yet, but now I'm going to initialize get init,
and I'm going to run npm init
so that I can use some Node packages in here.
So if you're not familiar with Node,
it really doesn't matter at this point.
I'm just gonna install some stuff
and I'm going to ignore it.
But you can ignore any other files
using the same stuff that I'm gonna show you.
So I'm gonna make a file.
I'll pretend you know to write a basic JavaScript app
in here, index.js, maybe I'll make a secrets file as well.
Secrets. I'll make it a text file
and then I open it up in my text editor.
Let's put some stuff in here.
So my index.js,
I'm just gonna write some very basic JavaScript code
like console.log, hello world.
All right, so whatever, this is my application code.
Then I'll have some secret like API_Key equals
let's just say that's some secret key
I don't want anyone to know about,
but I need it for my app.
And then let's go ahead and make our first commit.
So it would be nice
if I could make a commit and just do git add dot
but I can't because that will include secrets.txt.
So I need to add the index first
and then I'll also add my package.json
which is a generated file from Node.
And then I'll commit, you know, start project or something.
It doesn't matter what.
Okay.
And of course we still have this file that's untracked
and we want it to stay that way.
We don't want it to be tracked.
So if I do some more work in here,
I'm just gonna copy that a couple times.
We'll pretend I just wrote a lot of code,
then I'm gonna head over here again
to my terminal and I need to add that change
but I can't do git add dot,
I need to add just the index.js, right?
And then I can commit again, you know, add new feature.
This is a horrible commit message, but pretend it's not.
All right.
So now I'm gonna go and install something with NPM.
I'll install React.
I'm using NPM in here.
And we can see I have a new directory, node_modules,
and it has react in there and some of react's dependencies.
So if I type git status now,
it also notices
that node_modules now exist and my secrets file still there.
There's this thing called package-lock.json.
The package.json is modified, which I'm cool with.
I want to track that.
That's where the dependencies are listed.
So it tells anybody who gets this code,
I need react, but we don't actually need
to track the folder that includes React.
We can always go get that whenever necessary.
So now let's add in our .gitignore file
so that this will be ignored.
I'm going to make a new file.
I can do it from here.
I'll just do it
from the command line I guess to be consistent.
Touch .gitignore,
and as I mentioned, it's conventional to put it
in the root of your project directory.
So now I have that file and then in here
I can write certain files
and patterns that I want to be ignored.
So for example,
I don't know if there's a .DS_Store file in here,
no, there's not at the moment
but I don't know why it pops up, sometimes it just does.
So I'm saying ignore that.
Please also ignore the exact file secrets.txt.
That's the name of the file and the node_modules directory.
So I need a slash, if it's just node_modules like this,
it thinks it's a file.
This tells Git it's a directory, node_modules.
So over here, if I type git status now, whoa, look at that.
Very different.
Now we no longer see well, hmm,
I got rid of it unfortunately, I cleared.
But earlier it was tracking node_modules and secrets.
Now we just see .gitignore
because we did change that file and it exists.
We want to track the .gitignore file.
Then also this package-lock.json
and that's fine to track with Git.
So now I can just do things like git add dot if I wanted to
and I can commit and then I can make some commit message.
In this case, doesn't really matter
I haven't done any work.
But I'll just say, you know, add .gitignore file.
And now anytime I make changes in those files,
if I change my secrets file right there
I'll do something else in here.
Let's just add onto that key.
I save, normally Git would notice, but now it says nothing.
It's ignoring this file entirely.
So there's a lot to write in .gitignore,
especially for complicated projects.
You can have all sorts of stuff in there.
And to help out, there are tools online,
show you one quickly.
This is on the GitHub documentation.
They recommend this one site .gitignore.io
where you can specify what you're working in.
For example, if you're working on a Python app,
this is a recommended starting place for .gitignore.
And you may not have files with all of these patterns
or these extensions or these directory names
but they're common enough that you can just include it.
It's really not adding
a lot of overhead to your application
and they have similar .gitignore templates for JavaScript
and pretty much any other thing you can think of.
So that's an intro to .gitignore files.
There's a lot to them, right?
The patterns you can write,
you can actually go on the Git Docs and read about it.
There's more that we didn't even go into.
For example, two stars is different from one star.
A question mark is a way to match a single character.
If you're familiar with regular expressions notation,
it's kind of similar here.
But anyway, most of the time it's good enough
to just be able to ignore file names, directories,
and file extensions using the wild card.
Okay, so that's .gitignore.

--- Introducing Branches ---

Instructor: Okay, so before we dive into branching
let's just talk for like 10 seconds, probably 30 seconds
about how Git works at a very, very basic level.
When we make a commit,
each commit gets this weird looking hash,
this long series of numbers and letters
that is supposed to be unique
that corresponds to the contents
of a commit plus a couple of other things.
If you don't know about hashing functions, don't worry.
You don't need to understand any of it in order to use Git,
I'd say most people don't who still use Git daily.
I will have a video in sort of an appendix
at the end of the course or towards the end
that goes into some more details about
how the hashing actually works,
what is hashed together,
what hashing algorithm is used.
It's called SHA 1.
Anyway, all that we need to know
is that every commit has this unique hash,
this unique identifier that corresponds to the commit.
And each commit references at least one parent commit
that came before it.
So here we can see this most recent commit in blue
has a commit that came before it, this pink one,
and before that came this purplely blue one.
And that happens to be the initial commit.
It does not have anything before it.
It does not have a parent commit.
That happens the very first time you commit.
So we have this linear history
where one commit leads to the next,
which leads to the next.
But often when we're working
on a real project in the real world,
we need to work in multiple contexts simultaneously.
So imagine I'm working,
I don't know, I work at some company.
I'm working on a web application,
and I'm trying out two different color scheme variations
for a website
and I wanna try them both out
and figure out which one I like best.
And at the same time,
I also have been tasked
with trying to fix a really horrible bug.
But this bug is proving very difficult to solve.
I'm actually needing to delete some code
and comment stuff out,
move stuff around to try and hunt down the bug.
So it's not as simple as just fixing a typo.
I have to totally destroy part of the code base
to find this bug.
And at the same time,
one of my teammates is working on adding a new feature,
a little chat bot in the bottom corner.
You know, those things that pop up
and you can chat with customer service or something.
It's not clear at the moment
if our company wants to use that,
but he's going ahead and trying it
as a bit of an experiment.
And then another coworker is adding some new functionality
to the search bar, autocomplete.
And yet another developer is doing something very different.
She's doing a very experimental radical design overhaul
of our entire application layout,
but it won't be presented until next month.
And we don't even know if any of it will be used
after next month.
So, lots of different contexts.
If we all worked in a linear fashion,
one commit after the next,
this would be practically impossible.
How could we be working on separate things
some of which break other people's code, right?
If I'm trying to fix a horrible bug
and deleting a bunch of code, removing files,
I'm just making a mess.
That's gonna be a big problem
if somebody else is trying to add a new feature.
Likewise, if someone is doing
a radical experimental design change
on every single view of our application,
everything changes.
But I'm trying to work
on some minor color scheme variations,
or if someone's working on adding a chat widget
to the bottom right of our screen,
those things need to happen in separate contexts
because they have implications on one another
and they really need to happen in isolation
until maybe at some point we decide to incorporate changes
into each other's contexts.
So that is where branching comes in.
That's exactly what Git branches allow us to do.
Branches are a signature feature of Git
and you can kind of think of them
as alternative timelines for a project.
They allow us to create separate contexts whenever we want.
We can try new things,
we can work on multiple ideas in parallel,
we can experiment, we can break stuff,
and whatever we do on one branch will not impact
what happens on other branches.
Although we can decide to then combine branches.
We call that merging and we'll learn how to do that,
but that's something we have to decide to do.
Otherwise, if we make a change in one branch,
the other branches do not know about it.
They exist in isolation.
So this allows me to make a commit
and maybe make another commit on one branch.
And then at any point,
splinter off and try something.
On this pink branch up top
I'm calling new color scheme.
I could try a new color scheme out,
but over here if I switch back to this branch
none of that code comes with me,
none of those new commits.
So I could branch off again and work on a bug fix,
but again, totally separate context.
And then I could branch off even further
from this bug fix branch and branch further
to do an experimental redesign.
So now I have at least four different contexts,
1, 2, 3, and 4.
And this means that I could be working on this,
and maybe somebody else is working on this branch,
and somebody else is working here,
or maybe someone else is working
on this purplely bluish branch in the middle,
and working on things plotting ahead
while I'm still stuck here.
We're all working in separate contexts.
But then a very important part is being able to then combine
and merge branches together when appropriate.
If you work on a bug fix and you actually solve it
then you wanna merge that bug fix
into the main code base or into another branch.
So we'll learn how to do all of this in time,
but I'm gonna stop talking for now.
In this video, I just wanted to introduce
this idea of branching,
of having separate contexts.

--- The Master Branch (Or Is It Main?) ---

-: So even though we haven't really used the term branch,
we haven't made branches or referenced them in any way.
In Git, you are always working on a branch,
and we've seen evidence of this.
You've hopefully seen this before,
on branch master nothing to commit,
or it may not say nothing to commit
but on branch master something.
So in any repository, here's MyFirstNovel,
if I type git status, here we are on branch master.
And you can see the way I have my terminal configured,
it also shows me my branch that I'm on currently.
It shows master here.
That's what that is.
So when we learn how to change branches,
you'll see that updated as well on this right hand side.
So we're always on a branch,
even though we didn't decide to be on the master branch.
We didn't create the master branch.
It's just there for us.
And that's exactly what the master branch is.
It's just the default branch name.
When you make a new Git repository,
when we run git init,
automatically the branch that we start on is called master.
Now it doesn't do anything special.
It doesn't have any fancy powers whatsoever.
It's just like any other branch.
Every single possible branch you create,
they have the same abilities, the same commands.
There's nothing special about master except for the fact
that it just happens to be made for you.
Now, some people do treat the master branch
as special in their own project.
They treat it as the source of truth.
The official project branch,
the main branch where they don't wanna mess anything up.
So they treat the master branch is
like our official working code base.
And then I'll try things on other branches and if they work,
I combine them back into master.
But again, that is a choice that you make
or that specific developers make.
From Git's perspective,
the master branch is just like any other branch.
It does not have to hold the master copy of your project.
You can delete it, you can rename it.
And, in fact, I wanna talk about renaming it for a moment.
This is a topic that will come up again
a couple of times throughout the course.
The name on Git and GitHub for the default branch name
for a long time was master.
However, in 2020, GitHub announced that they were
renaming the default branch name from master to main
as part of a larger push by tech companies
to try and avoid any potentially offensive language.
So GitHub, again, just GitHub,
made this change from master to main.
With Git, however, what we're using,
we haven't touched GitHub yet,
Git the default branch name is still master
and that's why we see things like on branch master.
We didn't name it master, it's just the default branch name.
However, there are conversations happening
and that may change in the future.
And I will also show you how to change
the default branch name if you want to do this.
It's easy to do.
But I'm gonna wait until we talk
a little bit more about branches.
I don't wanna talk about renaming and changing branch names
before we even really understand what they are.
So we will come back to this.
But I wanna bring this up
because on most of the documentation, tutorials,
videos that you see out there,
you will see the term master branch
as the default branch name.
And over time, more and more people will likely adopt main.
So we'll put a pin in that for now.
And my slides are going to continue to use master
just because it is what your Git is going
to show you branch master.
But once we get to GitHub, we will use main.
Okay, so I mentioned that there's nothing special at all
about the master branch, but a lot of companies
or a lot of people treat it as your main branch
where things should always be working.
It should be the main copy
of your code base or of your project.
So you could then make a branch to try something
experimental and make some commits and test something out.
And then if you like that, you can incorporate it back
to master branch or you can abandon it
and just move on and keep working on your master branch
and just not incorporate this experimental branch.
This is an approach a lot of people use.
It's a very common workflow and we will actually
have a section on Git workflows and collaboration patterns.
But this is a very, very common one.
It's called feature branching or creating feature branches.
So you have your main or your master branch,
which acts as the source of truth,
and then you add new feature branches
and merge them back in when it makes sense.
So here's another version of the same thing.
We have Ethel and Fitz working on their own branches,
and then our master branch or the main branch
where their changes can be merged in.
But for us, at the moment, the only significance
of the master branch is that it just exists.
So next we're gonna learn how to make our own branches
and how to switch between them.
But before that,
we're actually gonna talk about this right here.
What is this thing, HEAD -> master?

--- What On Earth Is HEAD? ---

Instructor: So, there's one more concept
we need to get out of the way
before we can talk about creating branches
which is this thing right here.
Head.
You've probably seen this before
when we type git log, for example, every commit shows up.
Hopefully that's review.
And in our case, we see at the most recent commit
the top one, this thing, head, arrow, master.
So, what exactly is that thing?
Head in all caps, what does it mean?
Well, it's just a term in Git.
Specifically it is a pointer
that refers to our current location in the repository
and it points to a particular branch reference.
So, there's some terminology in there.
Branch reference we have not discussed.
So, I'm gonna break it down here.
I like to think of branches as bookmarks in a book.
We can have a whole bunch of different bookmarks
different places in a book.
So, let's say this is where I left off in the book
and this is where I'm sharing it with my friend.
This is where Fitz left off
and this is where Ethel left off in the book.
Three different spots.
At any given point in time
only one of those spots can be open, right?
We can't have the book open to multiple pages.
So, only one is active,
only one is being read or being viewed.
It's actually open to that bookmark.
So, that is what HEAD refers to.
HEAD is our current location that we are viewing
or that we are checking out
is a common term you'll hear.
So, in our case, we haven't done anything with HEAD,
we haven't made any branches.
So, HEAD always is referring to our master branch.
The last commit on our master branch.
And that's what we see here.
Everything's on our master branch.
HEAD refers to master, that's what this arrow means.
HEAD pointing to the master branch.
And this is all master branch.
This is what we call the tip of the branch.
It's the last commit, the most recent one.
So, HEAD refers to the branch pointer.
I know it's crazy terminology.
Then if I had more branches,
if I switch to a different branch,
like I switched to Ethel's branch,
HEAD points to the tip of Ethel's branch,
or I take a look at Fitz branch, I've switched there.
This is what I have open in our massive book.
This is the thing I currently have active in my repository.
HEAD points there.
I believe the term originates from a play head,
I think, is what it's called on an old tape machine
or tape recorder.
I don't know, I'm out of my depth here
but it had some analog meaning in the real world.
So, one more diagram to make this clear.
Probably won't make it clear just yet
but more practice will.
I want to reiterate.
HEAD is a pointer.
It's a reference to a branch pointer.
And a branch pointer is where a branch currently is.
It's like that bookmark in a book.
We can have a whole bunch of branches
and each one has a branch reference
that just refers to where that branch is.
So, let me demonstrate this.
We started on our master branch.
That's what we are on now,
and every project we've done,
we're on master.
HEAD points to master.
I do some more work.
I make a commit.
I'm still on master.
So, this branch pointer updates to my new commit
and HEAD stays the same.
It's still master
but then I decide I'm going to try something experimental.
I'm going to make a new branch.
So, I want to try adding a dark mode to my website.
So, I make a new branch.
We'll learn how to do that soon.
Dark mode still refers to the same commit as master.
They are at the same point, right?
They are two branch references pointing at the same thing
and HEAD points to dark mode
which means I'm on the dark mode branch.
So, now if I make a new commit,
I do some new work, things diverge.
Master stays where it was, it's pointing to this commit.
But dark mode now has a new commit it refers to
and HEAD still points to dark mode.
So, if I do new work, I'm on dark mode.
That's the branch I currently am on.
So, that new commit is on dark mode.
This dark mode pointer updates
to this commit instead of that one.
And then I can switch back, at any point,
I could go back to master,
remember, I think of it as a bookmark in a book.
So, we still have that bookmark.
That's what this reference is.
And I can open to that page
by switching over to this branch.
HEAD is pointing to master
and I could go back to dark mode, go back to master.
HEAD is just the thing that is currently open
that I'm currently checking out in my repository.
So, we can have hundreds of these different branches.
Each branch has a branch reference
pointing to where we left off.
That's really the key takeaway here.
A branch is just a reference to some commit.
And as we make more commits,
even if we're just on the master branch.
I make a new commit,
that master pointer now reflects that change.
It updates to point to that new commit.
So, over here, originally when this was the only commit,
master was pointing to this commit
and then to this commit, and then to this commit.
And now it's all the way up to this commit here.
They're all on the master branch.
This is the tip of the master branch here.
And then at any point we can create different branches
and splinter off into different directions.
We can have all these different branch pointers
referring to different commits
and then switch between them by moving HEAD.
All right, so conceptually, it's kind of a dense video.
I know.
I think it'll make a lot more sense
when I show you how to do this with the relevant commands
which is coming up next.

--- Viewing All Branches With Git Branch ---

Instructor: Okie-dokie.
It's time to learn our first command
that has to do with branching and it's a pretty simple one.
It is git branch, git space branch, nothing else.
This will just give us a list
of our current existing branches in a repo.
So it doesn't make a new branch, it doesn't switch branches,
it just shows you the current branches.
In our case, we haven't made new branches
so we won't see anything except master.
So I'm on MyFirstNovel for now.
I'm gonna make a new repository in a moment.
If I type git branch, I see one branch, master.
And to get out of here, just like with git log, I type q.
Now I'll show you a different project.
This repository has a couple more branches.
If I type git branch, you can see them all here.
Birds, birds-of-prey, california-mammals, hawks,
mammals, master, no-animals, owls, stashtest.
(laughs) I was testing something out there.
You can see though there's a bunch of branches
but the one that is active has a little asterisk next to it.
That's the branch we're currently on.
So we see I'm on owls, and again,
I can type q to get out of here.
So here on the the MyFirstNovel project,
we only have master.
I never made that branch, and it's the only branch we have
so we're on it.
We don't really have a choice right now
but next up, we're gonna learn how to make a new branch.

--- Creating & Switching Branches ---

[Instructor] - All right, so next up,
we're gonna learn how to make our first branch.
And we actually use the same command
that we just saw, git branch,
except now we add on a branch name.
So git branch with a branch name
will create a branch with that name
versus git branch without anything else
just lists the current branches.
So git branch, branch name.
And your branch name,
we'll talk a little bit more about later,
but it shouldn't include spaces.
Let's just start with that.
And generally, you want it to make sense and be informative,
but you don't need to write, you know,
a whole sentence to explain what the branch is.
Also, this simply makes a branch for us.
It does not switch to the branch.
So I'm on my master branch here,
as you can see, head points at master.
I have two commits on the master branch.
When I run this command, git branch bugfix,
that makes me a new branch called bugfix.
It's based off of the head where I currently was.
So it points to the same exact spot.
But I have a new branch.
I have not switched to it.
I'm still on master.
So I'll demonstrate this to you.
Let's make a new branch.
But first, I'm actually gonna work on
a separate project, a separate repo.
Instead of working on the novel we were writing,
"The Great Catsby," I'm gonna make a new repo.
I'm in a folder, I'm just calling it branching,
and I'm gonna make a directory.
I'm gonna make a road trip playlist folder.
So often, when I'm teaching this stuff, I'm torn
if I should do something very easy to follow along with,
something simple to understand,
or if I should do something realistic.
I'm gonna try and do both,
but I'm gonna start with a super simple,
easy-to-understand project.
So it's not really a project.
We're going on a road trip and I want a playlist of songs,
and I'm gonna use git for whatever reason
to track those songs and I'll make some different branches.
So I'm gonna start by making my repository.
So I'm in a folder, road trip playlist.
I'm gonna run git in it.
So I have an empty repo.
I know that I wasn't in a git repo,
but I should have checked to see with git status,
but I know that I wasn't.
And then I'm going to go ahead and make a file.
I'm gonna call it playlist.txt.
And I'll open this up in my editor.
Okay, so here it is.
I'm just gonna start by adding a very simple heading,
like song-artist.
So it's just the header heading for the playlist, right?
I'm gonna add that file, git add playlist, git commit.
I'm on the master branch, of course, just by default.
Add playlist header.
All right, we type git log,
we see head is pointing to the master branch.
Now, I'm gonna add two songs,
just two ABBA songs to start that I happen to like.
There they are.
"SOS," mm, great song, "One of Us," also great song.
I'm going to add those.
I just wanna have one or two commits on my master branch.
So I'm gonna do git add playlist, git commit,
add two ABBA songs.
All righty?
So I'm on the master branch, right?
Head points to master.
We have two commits.
Now let's make a new branch.
For whatever reason I decide,
I wanna make a different playlist
based on this one that only contains oldies.
So maybe I'm not sure, you know,
what I want on my main playlist.
So I'm gonna try a couple of options,
and that's exactly what I'm going to do
is make some different branches,
and I'm gonna make a branch called oldies.
And it's just gonna include songs that are,
they're not technically what the radio
would classify as oldies,
but let's just say anything from before, like, 2000,
which I recognize for most people is not oldies.
So to make a branch, git branch and then a branch name.
So let's make that oldies branch, git branch,
and I'll make this full screen.
And then actually before I do that,
let's just do git branch,
we're on master, it's the only branch.
Now if I do git branch oldies and hit Enter,
hmm, doesn't seem like anything happened.
I'm still on master, right?
If I type git status, I'm still on master.
No surprise there.
It doesn't switch us over.
But if I type git branch,
we do see we have a new branch,
oldies, we're just not on it.
Head is still pointing to master.
You can see that again, type git log,
head is pointing to master,
but now we have this new reference, oldies,
it's at the same commit, right?
Two branch references pointing to the same thing.
We just happen to be on master.
So we're at this stage, two branches,
they're both referring to the same point,
the same commit, and we're on master.
So to switch branches,
there's a command that we can use called git switch.
So this is actually a newer command in Git.
I'll do a separate video.
On the older command, we used something called git checkout
to do the same thing.
We'll talk about that.
It's still used in other contexts,
but git switch was introduced to switch between branches.
So git switch and then a branch name.
So in our example here,
if I do git switch bugfix,
head is now pointing to that bugfix branch.
It was on master, now it's on bugfix.
So in our case, we have this oldies branch,
we are not on it.
We see that we're on master.
I type git status, we're on master.
But if I do, git switch oldies,
and I do need to spell it correctly.
So if I reference something that doesn't exist,
it tells me, there's no branch with that name.
But if I do git switch oldies,
hey, switch to branch oldies,
my terminal shows oldies over here.
If I type git status on branch oldies and if I type git log,
you can now see head is pointing to oldies.
Still the same commit though, I haven't done any new work.
However, if I do some new work, I make a new commit here,
this is the oldies playlist.
So what should we add?
Let's add two good, great George Jones songs.
"He Stopped Loving Her Today."
Ugh, great song.
Great song.
Okay, so I'm gonna save,
and I'm going to commit.
Now, when I commit here,
remember, I'm on the oldies branch.
So git add playlist, git commit, dash m,
add two George Jones songs, just like that.
And we just made our first commit on a new branch.
We're on the oldies branch,
and if I type git log,
we're going to see something we haven't yet seen.
We see head referring to oldies.
That's what we expect to see.
It's our most recent commit.
That's where oldies is 'cause we're on the oldies branch.
But we see master now has been left behind
on this previous commit.
Master is still, remember,
this idea of a bookmark in the book.
It's still bookmarking this commit.
This is master, this is oldies,
and we happen to be on the oldies branch.
But I can switch, as we've seen, with git switch.
So if I switch right now,
this is what we have on our oldies branch.
If I switch over, git switch to master, take a look.
Now we have just two lines, just two songs rather.
We don't have the George Jones stuff that we did.
If I type git log on the master branch,
we only have these two commits.
Add the playlist header, add two ABBA songs.
But when I switch back, git switch to oldies,
we now have our two George Jones songs in addition,
and I type git log, we have that extra commit.
So that was just our first example
of making a branch and switching.
We will get more practice in the next video,
but just to remind you,
git branch on its own will list branches,
git branch with a branch name makes a branch,
and then to switch to a branch,
we use git switch, followed by the branch name.

--- More Practice With Branching ---

Presenter: In this video,
we'll continue to make some more branches
and I'm also gonna show you another way,
another command we can use to make and switch to a branch.
But first, I wanna pay special attention
to this part of the first paragraph here.
Use git branch with a branch-name to make a new branch
based upon the current HEAD.
That part is super important.
It tells us that where we are,
what HEAD is, when we create a branch
impacts the branch that we create.
So the location, the current branch we're on
when we branch is very, very important
and makes a huge difference.
So for example, here I've got my road trip playlist.
I don't wanna call it an app
but our repo just from the previous video
and I'm currently on the oldies branch.
I type git log, I have the commits from master these two.
And then I have the new commit I added on the oldies branch.
So I'm gonna add
how about two more songs, George Harrison songs.
Okay, My Sweet Lord.
And What is Life by George Harrison.
And I'm gonna add and commit those
and I'm actually gonna do it in a different way.
I haven't showed you -a -m is basically
a one line way of adding all on stage changes.
So git commit -a instead of add
and then commit and then I'll provide my message.
Just add two George Harrison songs.
All right?
So now, I have another commit
that I've added to the oldies branch.
So if I branch right now and make a new branch,
let's say I make a George's branch, I wanna make, yeah,
I guess a playlist that only includes songs by George's.
I can do that.
I'll branch from the oldies branch.
That's where I am right now.
So I can do git branch georges, okay?
So I made that branch.
Of course I'm still on oldies, I haven't switched over.
But if we look at git log, we see that both oldies
and my new branch georges, they are both referring
to the same commit.
They're at the same spot, the same page has been bookmarked
with two different bookmarks.
HEAD is currently pointing to oldies, but if I wanna switch
to George's and and make a commit on George's,
of course they will diverge.
So if I switch over, git switch to georges, we go git log.
Only thing that has changed here is that HEAD now points
to georges and I have all those commits
from the earlier Old East branch on georges.
So now, I can do a bit more work.
I'll add what's another, I'll add two George Michael songs.
Okay, so there we go.
Careless Whisper and Faith by George Michael.
I'll just add and commit them.
Do the same thing, -a -m "add two, George Michael songs.
And this of course only goes on the George's branch.
That's the branch I'm currently on.
So now, if I type git log, what do we expect to see?
HEAD refers to georges
because I'm on the georges branch and I have this one commit
that only exists on the georges branch
and the oldies branch was left in the dust back here, right?
So I could switch back to oldies,
git switch oldies and we see we lose those two songs.
Also, you know, I actually left
in those ABBA songs so I should switch back
to georges and I wanna delete those ABBA songs
because they're not created by georges
and unfortunately, we're only allowing georges here.
So now, I'll do another git add
and git commits or just the short version.
I'm on the georges branch so don't forget that.
"remove two ABBA songs."
Alright, so now git log.
I have these two new commits on the georges branch
that I'm currently on, plus all the other commits
from the oldies branch at that moment in time when I split.
So just at that moment in time
if I do more work on oldies, it does not impact georges.
Okay, so now I go back to oldies, git switch oldies
and we see ABBA is back and we don't have George Michael.
If I go back to master, almost everything's gone.
We just have ABBA.
So if I make one more branch from here
just as a quick demo, it's going to be based upon master.
That's where I currently am.
So I know I'm beating this dead horse a lot
but it's really important where you branch from matters.
And if I make a new branch, git branch
what should this one be?
How about just an empty playlist?
git branch emptyplaylist.
Okay, I now have this branch referring
to the same spot as master
and now I'll switch over, git switch emptyplaylist.
And here we are.
So now, I can delete everything if I wanted to.
git commit dash -a -m
"empty out playlist and there we go.
If I look at the git log, I only have three commits,
the two from master and then the one new one.
Anyway, this has been a long demonstration but
I just wanted to show, it does matter where you branch from.
So we go back to master if I whoops, I get switch master.
Okay, we have ABBA.
If I go back to georges, git switch georges, there we are.
And if I get switch back to empty playlist,
that's all we've got.
Okay.

--- Another Option: Git Checkout Vs. Git Switch ---

-: Alright, so next up I wanna talk
about a different command
you may come across
that we can use to switch branches.
It's called git checkout.
You can see it here
git checkout, with a branch name.
We'll do the exact same thing
as git switch with the same branch name.
It just switches us to whatever this branch name is.
So this command git checkout. existed for a long time.
It still exists in Gits,
and it does a lot more than just switching branches.
So it's, it's kind of a Swiss Army knife of Git.
It doesn't do everything.
I guess neither does a Swiss Army knife
but it does a lot more.
And for a lot of users this was confusing
and just it felt like it did too many things.
So git switch was introduced.
It's newer.
So the command we've been using,
git switch is the newer
fancier way of switching branches.
But this is the old school way and it still works.
And I'm showing it to you because you'll still see this
for sure all over the place in documentation
or on blog posts, YouTube videos, that sort of thing.
Co-workers might use git checkout to switch branches
plus git switch is still liable to change
although it's been around now for a little while,
I don't expect it to.
So lemme just demonstrate this.
I'm on empty playlist
you can see I've got my four branches.
Let's switch to oldies.
So instead of git switch
I'll do git checkout oldies,
and it's the same behavior.
I'm now on the oldies branch,
as we can see there
and my file has been updated to reflect what's
on the oldies branch.
So that's kind of all there is
to using git checkout in that one particular way.
But remember, git checkout does a lot more.
You can read about it on the docs,
although I really recommend you don't read it right now.
Just know this first part.
We can use it to switch branches.
But then there's this whole other thing,
restore working tree files.
Look at all the different options for how we use it.
We will get into checkout later on,
but in terms of switching branches,
it's very, very simple.
With that said, I still prefer git switch.
Now another thing that we can do
is instead of creating a branch
and then switching to it in two separate steps,
we can do it all in one go.
We can do it with git switch
if we add dash C as an option for "create".
So we provide a branch name and it will create that branch
and then switch us over to it, all at once.
So this can be pretty useful in my opinion.
Let's make a new branch from,
let's go back to master maybe.
So we'll go back to master.
We'll use switch, or check out, it doesn't matter.
Alright, so I'm gonna make my new branch
with this shortcut I showed you
git switch, dash C
and then a branch name that doesn't exist yet.
So I'll switch, I'm gonna call it
recentish music
like that, and notice it made it and I switched to it.
So without the dash C,
it would give me an error, right?
Just like this error,
it can't find that branch to switch to.
But with dash C, it makes the branch for me.
And then switches over
and I'll just add two songs. for some recent music.
I'll remove ABBA, Phoebe Bridgers.
By the way, if you don't know her,
very talented singer-songwriter.
And I'll just add and commit that.
I'll do it in two steps this time.
Okay, add two Phoebe Bridger songs.
There we go.
And that's kind of all I wanted to show you here.
Now there is an equivalent command if you use git checkout
but unfortunately it's get checkout dash B
B as in boy, B for branch.
It's very confusing.
I don't know why they went with dash B
(laughs)
but it's just how it works.
If you wanna make a branch and check it out in one go
git checkout dash B or git switch dash C.
And again, I prefer this, but you'll see git checkout used.
All right, so we've got some pretty good practice now
making branches and switching, making new commits
on separate branches, switching between them.
Hopefully it's clear
or at least becoming clear how this all works.
One thing though,
that my limited example has not illustrated is
that we can have as many files as needed, right?
I don't want you to think
that branches exist on a per file basis.
We do see this one file being updated
but I could make another file
on one of these branches and
Git will make sure that it exists on that branch
and does not exist on the other branches.
Or Git will update all relevant files and folders
depending on the branch.
So it's not limited to just one file
even though my simple demo has been.
All right? So that's it for this video.

--- Switching Branches With Unstaged Changes? ---

Instructor: This is going to be a very quick video.
I just need to explain one thing
that we haven't run into yet.
If I'm on a branch and I have some work
that is not currently committed,
so let's go to the oldies branch,
git switch oldies, and I'll do some work here.
I'll add two Van Morrison songs, great songs,
and it's "Stoned Me" and "Caravan."
So I'll save those two, but I'm not gonna add any commits.
So over here I see git status,
I modified that, I have changes that are not staged.
There's work on this branch that has not been committed.
If I try and switch branches right now,
let's see what happens.
Let's go back to the,
how about our empty playlist, git switch empty playlist,
and what does it say?
I get an error.
Your local changes to the following files
would be overwritten by checkout.
Playlist dot txt.
It's telling me that the work I have done right now
that I have not yet committed, which is right here,
if I try and switch to a different branch
it's gonna be lost because it's not committed.
This branch doesn't know about it.
There's not gonna be a bookmark for it
in the really large book before we change pages.
So it says, "Please commit your changes or stash them."
We will learn more about stashing
in just a couple of sections from now.
So for now, that's not an option.
For now, our only option is to commit our work
or just delete it I guess, and not make those changes.
So I am gonna commit that, git add playlist,
git commit, dash m, add two Van Morrison songs.
Just like that.
And now I can switch.
So I can do the same command to switch to empty playlist.
No complaints.
So if you run into an issue like this,
hopefully you understand why now Git is warning you
you're going to lose those changes.
You either need to stash them,
which we haven't learned, or commit them.
Now the last example I showed you,
we had changes that were in conflict,
right when I tried to switch branches,
we were working on the same file, this playlist file
and they were in conflict.
And so Git yelled at me and said,
"Hey, I don't know what to do."
We'll learn more about conflicts when we get to merging
but sometimes that's not an issue at all.
So if I make a new file, for example,
I'm on the oldies branch, lemme make a new branch here,
git switch dash C,
and this branch will be, I don't know, how about chicken?
I'm gonna delete it.
A chicken branch, okay?
And on this chicken branch,
I'm gonna make a new file entirely called chickens dot txt.
And I'll put some of my chickens in here,
like Stevie Chicks.
Okay, so I have this new file no other branch has
but I haven't added or committed that file.
And so now if I switch again, let's go back to oldies.
Git switch oldies.
Previously at the beginning of this video
we saw that Git yelled at me when I tried to switch
and it says,
"You can't switch.
You have changes that are gonna be overwritten
that are in conflict.
We don't know what to do.
Please stash or commit them."
But this is going to be different
because no other branch has this file.
There's no way that it's in conflict with anything.
So what actually will happen is this file
is gonna come with me.
I'm now on the oldies branch and I still have chickens.
Do you see that?
The file's still there.
And it came with me and it still says,
"Hey, there's this untracked file.
You haven't made a commit with it anywhere.
It's just gonna follow you to every branch you go to."
So for now, I'm just gonna recommend we always add
and commit changes before we switch branches
so that we can avoid this.
But of course, like I said,
we're gonna learn how to stash changes very soon.
First, we're gonna learn about merging
but I just wanted to call your attention to this behavior.
When you switch branches, sometimes,
if you have unstaged changes, they will come with you.
Other times if they're in conflict, Git will yell at you,
so just know that.

--- Deleting & Renaming Branches ---

Instructor: Okay, in this video,
I wanna talk about deleting and renaming branches.
So, this is something you probably won't need to do
all that often, early on at least.
But if you work professionally
or you work on a large project,
where there's tons of branches
and you are constantly making new branches
and then merging them in,
again, we haven't talked about merging,
but it's really common to work on something
and then merge it in.
You don't wanna just have this extra branch for no reason,
so you can delete them.
Let's talk about how you delete a branch.
You use the git-branch command.
Git-branch does a lot and we've seen,
it shows us a list of branches.
It also creates a new branch
and we can delete using git-branch with the dash D option.
So, dash D or dash dash delete deletes a branch.
Now, it tells us this message here,
it must be fully merged, blah blah blah.
We will learn more about what this means shortly.
We haven't talked about merging.
But if I try and delete one of these branches.
For example, let's make a new branch.
So, I'll go full screen here.
Where are we?
We are on an empty playlist.
It's an empty branch.
Let's go to, I don't know, Georges branch.
So, git switch Georges.
And then let's make a new branch
and I'll use our single line version,
git switch dash C to create a new branch.
And I'm gonna call it, delete me
because I want to delete it.
Okay, so we're on this new branch, delete me.
And to delete it, I use the dash D option on git-branch.
So, let's try it.
Git branch dash D and then I specify the branch to delete,
which is delete me.
I'm gonna run into a problem.
I can't delete the branch I'm checked out at.
So, the one that I'm viewing, right, I'm on delete me,
I can't delete it.
So, if I switch branches, let's do git switch master
and I try running that again, now I get a different message.
It's not fully merged.
If you're sure you want to delete it,
run git branch dash uppercase D,
which is equivalent to adding in the dash dash force option.
In other words, allow deleting the branch irrespective
of its merged status.
So, in this case, that's fine.
You wanna be confident in what you're deleting
and that you actually do want to delete it because
without GitHub, without any sort of backup,
which we don't have at this point in time,
if I had a lot of work on this branch
and I actually delete it, it's gone.
But for this demonstration, I'm fine deleting it.
So git-branch, uppercase D, delete me.
And now, it's gone.
So we can see here, there is no delete me branch.
All right, now another thing we might want
to do is rename a branch.
And this is something we definitely will be doing
when we get to GitHub.
We could rename our master branch to main
to play well with GitHub,
but also it's a common thing to do.
If you're unhappy with a branch name
or you just want to change it and give it a better name,
the way that we do it is somewhat hard to remember.
We use git-branch, the same command.
However, the flag or the option that we use
is dash M and that seems somewhat confusing.
It should be dash R for rename or dash N for name,
but it's actually dash M for move.
But it's move slash rename.
So, all that we do, if we want to rename a branch,
is first change to the branch that we want to rename.
So, this is kind of confusing because to delete a branch,
we had to go anywhere else but that branch.
We could not delete from the branch.
But to rename, you have to be on the branch,
again, it's just kind of weird,
but you don't have to do this that frequently.
So, what branch should I rename?
How about instead of recentish music,
I just wanna rename it to 2000s.
So, music from the 2000s
because recentish implies something somewhat pretty recent.
but maybe I want anything from the 2000s.
So, I'm gonna switch, git switch.
And I'll do checkout this time just to mix it up.
Show you both work, recentish music, I switched, okay.
And now I'm gonna rename it with git branch dash M,
and then my new name, which will be 2000s.
And we can see already, it changed to 2000s over here.
If I type git status on branch 2000s git log,
we see that head is pointing to 2000s as the branch name.
It's the same branch that I was on before,
the same two Phoebe Bridger songs are here,
but it's been renamed from recentish music to 2000s.
So I'll do I guess one more commit.
Here are two songs by a great group called Moderat
and I will go ahead and commit dash A, dash M,
just to do it in one go, add to Moderat songs.
All right and so that only exists on the 2000s branch.
It no longer is called recentish songs or recentish music.
Okay, so that's how you can rename a branch, it's dash M.
Where are you, where'd I do it?
Right here, it's somewhat confusing, but it works.
It stands for move and then we have dash D
to delete a branch.
Two operations you may not need to do all that often,
certainly not right now, but good to know about.

--- How Git Stores HEAD & Branches ---

Presenter: This video is completely 100 million
trillion percent optional.
Please, if you don't care to watch it, don't.
We're not gonna learn any new commands or any new syntax.
All that I'm gonna do is show you a little peek
behind the scenes in Git.
We're gonna take a look at that dot git directory
and I'll show you proof of HEAD, how it works,
the fact that it's just referencing a branch
and that each branch reference is referencing a commit.
Alright, so let's go ahead and hop over here
to our road trip playlist.
We are on this two thousands branch.
Let's go back to master.
So git switch master.
(keyboard typing)
And on master, it's very simple.
We have two commits and that's it.
And we can see that Head is referring to master
because we're on the master branch.
And the master branch is pointing to this commit.
This is the most recent commit on the tip
of the master branch.
Let's take a look at this Commit hash.
It starts with nine three E.
Let's just remember that nine three E D, 93ED.
Okay, so remember that.
And now remember we have this hidden directory
called dot git.
And inside of it I'll just CD inside.
CD dot git.
(keyboard typing)
We have this thing called Head.
And Head, if I take a look,
I'm just gonna use the cat command...
(keyboard typing)
Is referencing this other thing,
refs slash heads slash master.
So in other words, this is, I'll simplify it.
Head is pointing to the master branch.
If I switch branches, git switch oldies.
(keyboard typing)
Whoops, can't do that from here.
I have to back out.
Now if I switch, 'cause I was in the docket directory
it gets very confused.
Git switch to oldies...
(keyboard typing)
And now I take a look again.
So I'll do cat dot git slash Head.
I'm now outside that folder.
(keyboard typing)
See this, it now references oldies.
So if I switch back to master.
(keyboard typing)
And I take a look at head, it's now master.
So that thing, that file called head is just
referencing a particular branch.
Now this thing here, refs slash heads slash master
or refs slash heads slash oldies right here
they actually reference a particular commit.
So let's take a look.
I'm gonna open up the dot git directory now.
I've opened up the dot git directory just in finder here.
And let's take a look at this refs slash heads slash master.
So refs heads, and you'll see there's a file
for every branch that I have.
And in each one of these files, there's just one thing.
I'm gonna open it in my text editor
it's just a commit hash.
It's just a pointer to a particular commit.
And head in turn is pointing
to one of those branch references.
So remember head was refs slash heads slash master
that's what it had inside.
And then if we look at what that actually is
it's a commit 93 E D.
That is where the master branch left off.
That's where the bookmark for master branch is.
Now if I switch to the oldies branch...
(keyboard typing)
Nothing changes in this master reference, right?
But we know that my head changed.
So we could take a look at that again.
(keyboard typing)
Cat dot git slash head.
(keyboard typing)
There it is, head slash oldies.
And if we look at that.
Oldies, it says the last commit on the oldies branch
is seven F F D.
And if we type git log, that's exactly what we see.
Seven, F F D, right?
So we can see that all over the place.
You know I have this two thousands branch
and it says the last commit on there, zero two F four.
Okay?
And so if we switch to that branch,
git switch, two thousands...
(keyboard typing)
Type git log.
There it is zero two F four.
So each one of these is like a bookmark.
It's one of these branch references.
So we happen to have what, five of them instead of two
in this diagram.
Each one refers to a commit.
It just stores that commit hash in a file
and then head changes.
This file right here changes
depending on what we have checked out,
which branch we're currently on.
So again, this really doesn't matter
if you understand it or not.
In terms of using git,
it's not a big deal as long as you understand the fact
that head is just whatever you're currently checked
out on, whatever you're, you know what branch you're on.
But behind the scenes, this is the mechanism.
It's just a file
and it references a particular branch reference.
We look at those branch references
they in turn refer to a particular commit.
So pretty simple when you look at it this way.
So hopefully this diagram, plus this,
starts to sort of congeal branch reference points
to a commit.
This one points to a different commit.
Head just points to one of those branch references.
So we can stay on dark mode
or I could toggle back to master, but these stay the same.
The branch reference, they both stay the same.
Head is all that's changing,
until I do more work and make new commits.
Anyway, it's only optional.
I'm sure I'm boring you to death, so I'm gonna stop.
Bye.

--- Branching Exercise ---

Instructor: All right, so it's time
for an exercise to get some practice with Git branches.
So this is going to be a simple exercise
in terms of the files we're working with.
Kind of silly, it's Harry Potter themed,
but it doesn't matter if you know Harry Potter or don't.
If you just follow the instructions
and make the branches when you're prompted to make branches,
and switch branches when you're prompted to switch,
you should be good to go.
Now the theme of this, aside from Harry Potter,
is of Harry Potter patronuses, which are like,
I guess a Harry Potter version of a spirit animal.
If you've seen the movie or read the books,
the spell Expecto Patronum,
I don't even know why I'm going into it.
It doesn't matter.
Anyway, wizards have their own patronus, different animals.
So you will be putting some animals
in files on different branches for different characters.
Okay, so again, I strongly recommend you do this
on your own.
Follow the instructions.
You can find this file linked to in the resources
for this video.
You're going to make a new directory,
make a new git repo inside of it.
Make sure you're not already in one.
Then you'll create a new file called patronus.txt,
and you'll leave it empty for now.
So this will be on your default branch, the master branch,
or if you've changed the default name, whatever it is, main.
But for now, the default is just master.
Then we'll make our first commit with this message,
add empty patronus file.
Then we'll make a new branch called Harry.
And at the same time, or on the next line,
a second new branch called snape.
Both of them should be based on the master branch.
They should contain this empty patronus file.
Then you will move to the harry branch that you just made.
And there are two different ways we've talked about
for moving to new branches or moving between branches.
So I would like you to use the new command.
If you don't remember which one is new and old,
it's not a big deal.
Just use one of the commands that we talked about,
and then later on use the other command that you didn't use.
Okay, so on the harry branch we are going to put this inside
of the patronus file,
Harry Potter's patronus is a stag.
So copy all of this and put it in that file,
save it, add and commit the changes,
and then use this message,
add harry's stag patronus,
and again this is on the harry branch.
Then you will move over
to the other branch you already made called snape.
So this branch, again, should be based off of master
when you made it early on,
at the same time as the harry branch.
When you move over to that branch, use the other command,
the older command to switch or to change branches.
And then open up the patronus file again.
and this time, put this in there,
Snape's patronus is a doe.
So this is what you'll put in there.
Save it, add and commit, and then use this message
if you'd like.
Then something different.
We will make a new branch based upon the snape branch,
and we're going to call it lily.
If you don't know any of these characters,
it really doesn't matter.
All you need to know is that Snape and Lily
have the same patronus.
So we are branching off of snape
to a new branch called lily.
And then we will move to that branch,
to the lily branch, and we'll edit this file.
And we're gonna keep the doe in there
because they have the same patronus,
but we will edit this little header
so that it says LILY'S PATRONUS instead of SNAPE'S.
You can leave the doe alone, that's the point.
They share the same patronus, the same form.
Then you'll add and commit.
You can use this message if you want.
So this is on the lily branch.
Then run a command to list all the branches,
you should see four.
So just making sure you remember that command.
And then as a bonus, delete the snape branch.
Poor Snape.
Okay, so if you're still here, I really recommend,
I insist that you try it on your own,
but if you wanna just watch me do it, here we go.
So I'm gonna make a new folder called patronus.
Let's just do that here, patronus. I'll cd into it.
I'm going to initialize a repo,
but first make sure I'm not in one.
Okay, so now I have this folder
and a new repo in it,
and I'm gonna create a file called patronus.txt,
patronus.txt.
And then I'm going to add and commit with this message,
add empty patronus file.
So git add that file, git commit -m, there's my message,
and there we go.
That's the first bit.
Now immediately make a new branch called harry
and another new branch called snape,
both based on the master branch.
I'm currently on master, so that works to our advantage.
I'm going to make a new branch called harry
and another one called snape.
Okay, next step,
move to the harry branch using the new way of doing it.
The new command is git switch.
So we'll move over using git switch to the harry branch,
and now we see that we're on harry.
Then in the patronus file, add the following.
So I need to open up that file.
So I'll do, I copied all of that first of all,
but then I'll use my code shortcut, code,
just do the whole folder.
Here's that patronus file.
I will paste that in there.
Lemme zoom out a bit.
Okay, so I'll save that.
And then it wants me to add
and commit the changes with this commit message.
Alright, so we'll do a git add patronus,
git commit -m, and paste in that message.
Okay, so we should now have two commits on this branch.
Next we are going to move over to the snape branch
using the other, the older command, which is git checkout.
So we'll do that, git checkout snape.
You could use switch, right, they're both gonna work,
but I just want you to get practice with both.
So I'm now on the snape branch as my terminal tells me,
and I'm going to put this in the patronus file.
Now if I take a look, the patronus file is empty, right?
Because I branched off of master
before anything was in here.
I didn't branch from the Harry Potter or the harry branch.
Okay, I'll save that and then I'm gonna make a new commit
with that change and this message.
Okay, so git add patronus, git commit -m
on the snape branch, add snape's doe patronus.
And then I need to make a new branch
based on the snape branch called lily, and then move to it.
So I could just do git branch lily,
I'm on snape and that's where I should be
if I want to branch based on snape, I want this history.
Just to remind you, if I do a git log, two commits,
add empty file, add snape's doe patronus.
So if I do a git branch lily, that will work.
Or I can make the branch and switch to it in one go
like this, git switch -c lily,
and that made it and it switched me over.
I still see add snape's doe patronus, right?
The file contains the doe.
Now I'm going to edit it
so that it says LILY'S PATRONUS instead of SNAPE'S.
So I'll put that up top and then I will add and commit.
So just copy this message, git status, we modified patronus,
so we add, we commit and we'll give it that message.
Okay, next, and almost at the end,
run a git command to list all branches, we should see four.
So what is that command?
It's just git branch and nothing else.
Just git branch, we see four, I'm currently on lily.
And then, bonus, delete the snape branch.
Oh, poor Snape.
Well, to delete a branch,
we saw that we use the exact same command, git branch,
and then a branch name.
But we pass in this -d, git branch -d,
and then snape, that's the name of the branch.
Make sure I'm not on that branch.
I'm currently not.
And there we go, it was deleted.
So now if I do just regular git branch,
only three branches.
And that's it, that's the end
of the branching exercise, okay.

--- An Introduction To Merging ---

Instructor: Now that we have a lot of practice
making branches and switching between them,
let's tackle merging branches.
One of the essential features of working with branches,
so the whole idea here is that
with branches we can work within the self-contained context.
We can work on different things in parallel,
but usually we want to incorporate some of
what we've done into another branch, right?
We don't just work in a separate context
and continue to work in a new separate context.
Every time we work on something,
we need to combine some of the stuff we're doing.
If you are working on a feature
and I'm working on a feature
and we work at the same company,
at some point if both of those features are,
they're good features, we wanna incorporate them.
You're going to need to merge your feature
into some branch that I can get
and I need to merge my feature
into some branch that you can get.
And then sometimes we do just abandon a branch
and we don't merge it.
But if things go well, a lot of the time
we combine work from one branch into another.
So there's a command we use called git merge.
I'll show it in just a moment.
But as I've said a couple of times,
a really common workflow is to treat the master branch
or the main branch or whatever you call it,
some people call it trunk,
whatever you call that branch.
A lot of people treat it as the source of truth
or the most stable build of an application
where you don't want to screw anything up,
you don't do any experiments on master.
So people work on a feature branch
and then that work can then be incorporated back
into the master branch if it's deemed appropriate.
You know, it's solid
and it's gone through some different checks
and people like it,
they can merge it back into master.
But the work itself is done on a feature branch.
So everybody at X company works on their own feature branch
for each feature and then potentially merges them back
into master.
So there's a couple of things that can be confusing
about merging and basically I try and boil it down
to these two principles.
We merge branches, not specific commits,
so we don't pick one commit and the second commit
and join them together.
We merge branches.
And the second piece is that we always merge based
on the current head branch.
We merge to where we are to where head is.
So here's a simple example.
I have two branches in this example,
a master branch and a bugfix branch.
And on this bugfix branch,
you can see down here I have some commits, right?
I have diverged, I've made a new branch from master,
and I've added two commits as I'm fixing this bug,
and it's now time for me to merge that work into master.
So I want these two commits.
I want all of that work available on master.
So the workflow here is to first switch
or check out the branch
that we want to merge the changes into.
We need to move over to the receiving branch.
So I'm trying to merge these commits into master.
I need to switch to master.
So that's what I do, git switch master.
Head now points to master.
And then the second step is to actually
use the git merge command.
And I'll show you an actual demo of this in the next video.
But for now we're dealing with slides.
So we use git merge and then some branch name
and that will merge changes
from this branch into the current branch that we're on.
So this right here, git merge bugfix will take the commits
from bugfix and merge them into whatever branch we're on,
which in these diagrams is master.
So we switch to master and then I run git merge bugfix.
And you can see that master is now pointing at this commits.
So it went from there to there.
Now this is a very simple type of merge.
The rest of this section deals with other types.
Here's a easier way to visualize this, right?
These colors in this diagonal line are just
to help visually separate these branches for you.
But really they're just commits
with different pointers at different commits, right?
It's just a chain of these commits,
at least with the way this branch works.
We had master,
we branched off to bugfix and did two commits.
Now all that we did when we merged was catch up.
We moved master up to that same commit.
This is called a fast forward merge
because that's all we had to do for this branch to catch up.
It just fast forwarded a couple of commits.
There wasn't additional work on the master branch.
Now sometimes that will be the case.
So there'll be additional commits over here that don't exist
on bugfix and that is trickier to merge
and that's what we're gonna spend some time talking about.
But for our first example,
we're dealing with these fast forward merges.
So you have two branches
and one of the branches just has additional commits
that the first branch doesn't have.
So to catch up,
it's just a matter of moving that pointer forward.
So that's what the git merge command does in this example.
So git merge bugfix, if we're on the master branch,
moves that pointer up to bug fix.
So now master has all that history,
it has the work that it had from before,
but also the work from bugfix.
Okay? So again, this is called a fast forward merge.
They're nice and simple.
In the next video I'm going to demonstrate one
and we'll get some practice with our playlist example.

--- Performing A Fast Forward Merge ---

Instructor: So now let's try a fast forward merge,
which just to recap from two minutes ago
at the end of the last video,
a fast forward merge is a special case of a merge.
It's a simpler merge to perform.
The commands are the same,
but from Gits perspective it's really easy
because all it has to do is move a pointer up
some number of commits to catch up
or to fast forward to some particular destination commit.
So in these diagrams,
we're fast forwarding Master to commits
if we merge the Bugfix branch into Master.
So that's what we're gonna practice.
We're gonna try this out.
Remember that this is a special case of a merge.
Not all merges work this way.
And also remember the steps.
The first step is to switch
to the destination branch we're merging into.
So back here, if we go with these diagrams,
we need to switch over to Master
if we weren't on Master already ,
assuming we want to merge these commits into Master.
Then all we do is run git merge
and then some branch we want to merge into Master.
And then in this case, that will make Master catch up
on those commits from Bugfix.
In other situations,
we might have some additional work to do.
In the event that there's additional commits
on Master that don't exist on Bugfix
or there's conflicting information,
that is what we'll talk about in the next couple of videos.
But for now, we're just gonna practice
with a fast forward merge.
So switch to the branch
and then merge some other branch in.
Okay, so let's try it out.
-: So over here on our playlist example,
we have, well, quite a few branches.
I haven't shown this, but if we use dash v
we get a little bit more information.
We get the last commits, the tip of the branch,
and the commit message alongside the branch name.
So we started off with our Master branch.
It's very simple, right?
If I switch to it, it just has these two Abba songs.
We look at git log, we have two commits there.
And then we have our Oldies branch
which I think I'm gonna merge into Master.
So let me take a look at Oldies.
So it has some additional content.
But if we look at git log, it just has the first two commits
from Master and then it has what, three more commits on top?
But nothing has happened to the Master branch
since we split off, since we created this Oldies branch.
So this is an example of what would be a fast forward merge.
Just to be clear here, I'm using this distinction,
I'm calling it a fast forward merge,
but the commands you use are still just git merge
and I'll show you a merge in the next video
that is not a fast forward.
It behaves the same way.
We use the same commands,
you'll just see there's an extra hurdle
along the way potentially.
Anyway, I wanna merge my Oldies branch into Master
so I can get all of this stuff in my Master branch.
So we'll go to Master, git switch master.
That's the first step.
Okay, once again, I do git log.
We only have two commits.
This is where Master leaves off.
This is all that it has.
But now I'm gonna run git merge
and then the name of the branch I want to merge into Master.
I'm currently on Master.
I want to merge the commits from Oldies.
And what do we see?
It says fast forward right there
and it tells me one file change,
seven insertions, one deletion.
Let's take a look at our playlist file now.
Cool.
We can see that all this stuff was added in
and more importantly, if we look at git log,
we see that we had the first commits
that we always had on this branch,
but now we have these other commits that came
from the Oldies branch.
The George Jones commit, George Harrison commit,
and the Van Morrison commit.
And that is our first successful merge.
We merged the content that commits from Oldies on to Master.
Now, a very important note is
that we still have the Oldies branch.
It doesn't delete that branch, it's still there.
So I could go back to Oldies
and do something new and it would not exist on Master.
So they're not forever in sync.
This is one moment where everything from Oldies was added
on to Master, but that doesn't mean that they're the same
and that they'll stay the same if they are.
They're still separate branches
and I can do separate work.
They are distinct contexts, but right now the commits
from Oldies were merged into Master.
And that's an example
of a fast forward merge where the Master branch
in our case had to catch up on commits from a merged branch.

--- Visualizing Merges ---

Instructor: In this video, I want to use GitKraken
as a way to visualize our branches
and specifically to visualize the merging process.
So I have GitKraken open with this playlist repository.
We just merged our two branches,
we merged oldies into master.
Unfortunately, I've been trying desperately to zoom this in,
this is as far as it lets me go for whatever reason,
I hope that you can see this.
Otherwise, I'll try and make it a bit larger
in post-production, although it might be blurry.
Anyway, I have my road trip playlist repository open,
and if you need to know,
if you don't remember how to open that,
just go to view all repositories,
or you can actually click right there to open a repository
and then navigate to the right folder and open it.
So here it is
and I can see each branch referenced
over here on the left side.
Now, master and oldies are currently referring
to the exact same commits because that's where they are,
they are in sync with the one another right now.
But I'm gonna change that,
I'm actually going to add some more work
to the oldies branch
and then merge it back into master eventually.
But for now, I'm gonna go to the oldies branch.
So let's switch over, git switch oldies
and then I'm just gonna add another song or two here.
Okay, so I added two songs by Wings, "Band on the Run"
and "Live and Let Die."
Let's add both of those.
Git commit -a -m, add 2 Wings songs.
Okay, so we added that to oldies, master,
no longer it's up to date or in sync with oldies.
Oldies now has a commit that master does not.
Obviously if I switch to master, we see that go away.
So now if we go back to GitKraken,
we can see here's master, the last commit master has
is this one, add two Van Morrison songs.
Oldies is now one commit ahead
and it has add two Wings songs.
So I can do one more example, let's just add two more songs.
How about two Joni Mitchell songs?
Lemme switch back, git switch,
and I can switch branches using GitKraken or a GUI.
So I can switch this way if you prefer.
And now in my terminal I type git status,
it does say I'm on oldies.
So I prefer to use Terminal, but I like to use GitKraken
to help visualize this stuff.
Anyway, I'm going to add two Joni Mitchell songs.
There we are, "River and "Both Sides Now," great songs.
I will add those changes and commit.
So git commit -a -m.
And I could do this from within, GitKraken,
if I wanted to.
Over here, view the Change, I can stage that file,
and then I can make my commit message
add two Joni Mitchell songs.
It's the exact same thing, whoops, I mean two,
it's just I'm doing it from a GUI.
So I stage that file,
I commit and I'm on the branch, oldies.
So let's do that.
Okay, so now we see this is where master was,
it still is, but oldies now has two new commits
that master does not have.
So this sets us up for what we've already seen,
a fast forward merge.
If I want to merge the changes from oldies into master,
it's pretty straightforward,
all we need to do is add these two commits to master.
Well, it's not what we do, but it's what Git does,
it just catches up, catches up to the top
so it's in sync with oldies.
So again, this is master right now, this is oldies.
There's two commits on oldies that master does not have,
I'm going to merge them.
So what is that process like again?
Well, it's two steps.
Remember, we go to the destination branch,
and then we merge with Git Merge and our branch name.
So I'm gonna switch to master.
Okay, now I'm gonna run, git merge, and then oldies.
So before I hit Enter, just one more time,
these two commits, Wings and Joni Mitchell,
those two bands or two groups that I added songs for,
those commits are now going to be added to master.
Or another way of thinking of it is just master
is going to fast forward
and catch up with those two commits.
So here we go, fast forward,
and you can see over here now,
master and oldies are both referring to the same commit.
So that's visualizing a fast forward merge.
But as I've alluded to, not every merge is a fast forward,
and in the next video we will deliberately
create a situation that is not as simple.
We'll have to merge and there may be some issues that arise.
So that's coming up.

--- Generating Merge Commits ---

Instructor: So as I've mentioned a couple of times,
not all merges are fast forward merges.
I'm gonna show you an example of that in this video.
So imagine you're working,
I don't know, you're on a team, two people,
and you have your master branch on a project
and then you create your own branch to fix a bug,
or try some experiment out, or whatever it is.
And you're working over there for a few hours
and then you're happy with it,
and you want to merge it back into the master branch.
But then you realize
hey, somebody's already done some work on the master branch,
my teammate, my partner has done work,
since I created my branch.
So there's a commit over here
or maybe 10 commits that I don't have
on my branch on bugfix,
but it is on master.
So when I try and merge,
it's no longer a fast forward.
If I just try and take these two bugfix branch commits,
it's not a matter of just having master catch up.
Now there's new information
that I don't have on bugfix
and there's information on bugfix that master does not have.
So to make this merge happen,
it's not terribly complicated or anything.
We use the exact same commands,
but Git may not be able to do it automatically for us.
It depends on the particulars of our commits
and if there's conflicting information.
For example, what happens if on the master branch,
my partner edited line 59 of a file
and on the bugfix branch,
I edited the same line to be something else?
Which one wins when there's a conflict?
Well, that's something we're going to address
in the next video.
For now, I'm gonna show you an example
where we don't arrive at a conflict
and instead Git is able
to make the merge for us automatically.
So what happens in these scenarios?
When it's not a fast forward merge,
something called a merge commit is generated.
Basically git just makes a commit for us
on the branch that we're merging into, the recipient branch.
It makes a new commit for us
and it will prompt us to include a message.
And one thing I'll just call your attention to
really quickly is that this new merge commit
is the first commit we've seen
that actually has two different parent commits.
Remember every commit has a parent.
So if we take this commit here,
it has one parent, this one has one parent,
this one has this parent
and this parent from bugfix.
So commits can have multiple parents
and in fact they do.
Whenever we make a merge commit,
I just wanna point that out really quickly.
This is something that will come up later on.
Anyway for now, let's try making a merge commit.
So I'll show you this.
However with our RoadtripPlaylist,
as greatest this repo is,
there's quite a few branches going on
and it's kind of difficult to just visually show you
with all this other clutter.
So what I'm gonna do is just duplicate
some of what we've done.
I'm just gonna make a new repo really quickly.
So I'm gonna back out of here.
I'll call it PlaylistTake2.
I'll cd into that.
Make sure I'm not in a repo, I'll initialize,
and then I'm gonna make a single file on my master branch.
I'm gonna call this songs.txt
and I'm gonna open this up in my editor.
Okay, so here's that file.
I'll add a new commit here, git add songs.txt,
git commit, add songs file.
All right, so I'm just gonna quickly add two songs in here.
Okay, I added two songs by ABBA again.
I've opened this repo in GitKraken.
So you can see master branch
has exactly one commit, add songs file.
Now I'll make my commit in here just to show you again.
I can do it visually.
I click Stage for that file instead of git add
and then add to ABBA songs.
Okay, commit changes to one file.
I'm on the master branch.
Great, so I'm now going to branch
off from this master branch
and I'll make a branch called ABBA, sure.
It's going to include more ABBA songs.
So I'll go ahead and do that.
I'll do it from here, git branch ABBA,
and then I can switch to it,
git switch to ABBA.
Okay, so I'll add another couple ABBA songs.
I'll make a commit on this branch.
All right, so I'll do "Mama Mia" by ABBA
and then I'll stage that file
and then add "Mama Mia,"
and I'll do one more commit.
What's another song?
I guess "Dancing Queen," Dancing Queen ABBA,
and I'll do the same thing.
Definitely do not need to do this with a GUI,
but I'm just trying to show it in two different ways,
so add Mama Mia.
Okay, so now we have what?
Two commits on master branch
and two commits in addition
that are only on the ABBA branch.
So if I were to merge right now,
it would just be a fast forward.
If I merged the ABBA changes into master,
master just catches up.
But I'm gonna go back to master
and do some more work.
So this is the same idea
that I showed here where what if I'm working on a branch
and then a coworker does a new commit
on master in the meantime?
So let's do that.
Let's add a completely new file to master.
Remember I said we can run
into conflicts which complicate things.
I'm gonna show that in the next video.
So that's why I'm gonna do it in a separate file.
I'm gonna make a new commit.
Maybe instead of just songs,
I also want a playlist for podcasts.
So I'm gonna make a podcast file
on the master branch, so podcasts.txt.
Okay, so now I have this new file
and I'll make a commit just to commemorate that.
I'll do it this time from the command line.
So git add podcasts.txt,
git commit, -- podcasts file.
So back in GitKraken,
we see now master has this new commit
that ABBA does not know about.
ABBA knows about these four commits,
the two ABBA commits plus the two prior on master,
but now master has a new commit
and so merging is going to be slightly different.
It's not a fast forward as we've discussed.
I am just gonna add one commit to master.
Maybe one more, let's go to the podcast file
and add something to the podcast file.
How about some good podcasts?
I like one called "The Lead," a sports podcast.
"Radiolab" obvious, well, I shouldn't say obviously,
but a lot of people know that one.
"This American Life," we'll just stop there.
Okay, three podcasts, and I'll add the podcast file
and commit, add three podcasts.
Okay, so now on master,
we have two commits that ABBA doesn't know about
and on ABBA, we have two commits
that master doesn't know about.
So I'm gonna do the merge.
Just like before, I'm going to merge
the ABBA branch onto master.
I shouldn't say just like before
because we haven't had an ABBA branch,
but I'm just gonna do the same process where I go to master,
I'll switch to master,
and then I'll merge the ABBA branch into master.
So this is what it looks like right now.
Just keep your eye on this and remember, right?
We split off to make ABBA
and then I kept going on the master branch,
and I added the podcast file.
So now I'm on the master branch, right?
Just double check, and I'm going to merge ABBA.
So git merge ABBA.
Did I capitalize the branch name?
Yes, I did, okay.
There we are, git merge ABBA.
Oh, and take a look at this.
It opened up my editor
because I've set my default text editor in Git to be VS code
and it's waiting for me to close that file.
Just like when I make a commit,
if I don't use the -m flag, it opens up VS code.
And so this tells us we have a new commits.
Remember I talked about this idea
of a merge commit being made for us.
That's exactly what's going on.
Git made a commit for me
and it suggested a message, Merge branch ABBA.
I can add other stuff in here if I want to.
Usually I just leave this alone
'cause you're just merging the branch
and that's pretty self-explanatory,
but we could edit this commit message.
All we need to do is close.
So if you did configure your editor, just close out
and that will make our new commit.
There we are, it says merge made by the recursive strategy.
We'll learn more about that in,
well, you can in an appendix
a bit where I talk about how Git works.
Totally optional though.
Let's take a look over here in GitKraken.
What do we see now?
Well, this line is new.
See that right there?
In a new commit right there that says Merge branch ABBA.
So I can also view this with git log, I'm on master.
We can see I have the original master commits
and then I have the commits from our ABBA branch.
By the way, I screwed up.
You probably saw this before me.
I gave them the same commit message,
add Mama Mia, add Mama Mia,
even though one of them was actually adding Dancing Queen
and the other was adding Mama Mia.
Anyway we have those two
and I have my commits from the master branch,
add podcast file, add three podcasts,
and then I have this merge commit that Git made for me,
and I just left the default message.
So that's an example of a non-fastforward merge
where things were still automatically merged.
I just had to provide a message.
There was no conflicting changes.
There was no problems that arose.
For example, I wasn't changing two things in the same file.
Git was able to figure out
oh, just merge in that new stuff
into the actual songs file, this ABBA stuff,
and keep the podcast changes
that are on the master branch already.
So that's one example of a merge commit.
In the next video,
I'll talk about what happens when there is a conflict
and how we resolve that.

--- Oh No! Merge Conflicts! ---

Instructor: Alright,
so now we get to talk about merge conflicts.
When we merge two branches, as we've seen,
Git will do its best to automatically merge those changes
whether it's a fast forward or needs to make a merge commit
as we saw in the last video,
it tries to do things automatically and so far,
it's succeeded in the two examples I've shown you.
But if we had conflicting changes, for example,
on one branch, somebody modified a file,
and on a second branch that we're merging,
somebody deleted the same file.
Or another situation would be,
if on one branch I edit one line,
77 of some file and somebody else on the other branch
or maybe it's me too, on the other branch
I edit the same line, line 77 in the same file,
Git doesn't know how to automatically merge that.
How does it decide what to keep and what to get rid of?
So this is where merge conflicts come up.
You have to manually resolve them.
It's not a big deal.
Lemme show you the process first.
When you run git merge and if there are conflicts,
you'll see something like this,
conflict and then merge conflict in some file,
automatic merge failed,
fix the conflicts and then commit the result.
So this is a multi-step process.
Git tells us there's conflicts, then we have to go
and open the files where there are conflicts and fix them.
And then we commit those changes.
So the files
where there are conflicts are actually decorated.
They have new content to indicate where there are conflicts.
So when we open up a file, we'll see this weird stuff
in there, head and then a branch name.
I will show a demo of this, of course.
So it should make more sense than it does at the moment.
So what these markers indicate is what content came
from my head branch, the branch I'm on,
the recipient branch I'm trying to merge into.
And that's indicated by the less than the little arrow head.
And then the equal sign.
So this is what I had in this diagram
on my, let's say the master branch.
This is the change I made.
And then this is from the bug fix branch
that I'm trying to merge in.
So it's my job now to delete or keep both,
figure out which part I want, which part I don't want.
It's totally up to me.
I resolve it and then I get rid of these conflict markers,
these symbols, and then I save the file and then I go back
and add and commit the changes.
So here's a step-by-step guide.
You run into a conflict,
Git tells you what files there are conflicts in.
We open up those files, then we edit the files.
We, you know, figure out how do we want
to resolve the conflict?
Do I want all three lines?
Do I want just these two or just this one?
You combine them, it's up to you, right?
And with code, usually you need to figure out what matters
and what's supposed to be there.
And you know, you have to go through it and be careful.
But the point is you are doing it as a human.
Git is not just deciding for you.
So it's very important.
We go through, we remove those conflicts,
we decide what we want to keep
and then we remove the markers as I mentioned.
We get rid of this, we get rid of this
and we get rid of this.
Save.
Now we add our changes and make a commit and we're done.
We resolve the conflict.
Okay, so I know it seems complicated
but I'm gonna show a demo in the next video.

--- Resolving Merge Conflicts ---

Instructor: All right, so in this video,
I'm gonna demonstrate generating a merge conflict
and then resolving it,
and I'm gonna keep working with our simple repository.
Currently, it has two branches, master and ABBA,
but I'm actually gonna delete the ABBA branch
because I merged in those changes,
and let's say I'm done with it,
so I'm gonna delete it.
There's a couple ways of doing it.
I've actually already shown this,
but basically, git branch -d
and then a branch name,
and you wanna make sure you're not on that branch,
so if I wanna delete this ABBA branch,
I'm not on it, so git branch,
I'll do a full screen, -d ABBA,
and it's gone,
so I had all the changes merged into master,
so it doesn't warn me.
When I first introduced how to delete a branch,
it did warn us
because we hadn't learned how to merge changes in,
but now everything is merged in.
I don't need to force this delete with a capital D.
Okay, so now we have just the master branch, all right?
So now what I'm going to do to demonstrate merge conflicts
is I'm gonna make two branches, and I'll do it quickly.
I'll probably fast forward through a lot of it.
One for our friend Bjorn
and another for our friend, I don't know, Serena,
and they're going to each have their own branch
where they can make their own playlist for the road trip,
and they're definitely not going to agree,
so they'll make their own playlist on their own branch,
and then I'll merge them together
when we're ready for our road trip,
so I'll start by making Serena's branch,
so I'll do it in one go:
git switch -c serena, okay?
And then I'll also go back to master, git switch master,
and then I'll make the other branch,
git switch -c for bjorn, all right?
So now we have two branches.
Well, we have three,
but we have two that we just made, serena and bjorn,
and they're all referring to the same spot
that master currently is,
so now we're gonna switch over.
We're on bjorn, so let's just work on bjorn's branch.
Bjorn really does not like ABBA that much,
but he likes "Dancing Queen,"
so he's gonna keep "Dancing Queen," okay?
Then we're going to add some music in that Bjorn does like.
Bjorn likes a band called King Gizzard &amp; the Lizard Wizard,
so he adds that in.
We'll make a commit for him, or he makes a commit.
I'll just do it here. Stage all changes.
Add, and I'm just gonna do King Gizzard Lizard Wizard song.
All right, so we're on the bjorn branch,
and he adds one more song.
What should he do here?
He likes the Strokes,
so he adds both, or two songs in by the Strokes, okay?
He stages them, he commits,
add 2 Strokes songs, okay?
Then, simultaneously, Serena is working on her branch,
and she likes ABBA quite a bit.
She even goes as far as to add another ABBA song in.
She adds, what is it, "Gimme Gimme," I think, by ABBA.
Okay, so she makes that commit, stages her change,
add 1 ABBA song.
Okay, and she does one more change.
What else does she like?
She likes Dolly Parton,
so she adds, "Here You Come Again," okay?
So she adds that change. She stages it.
She commits add 1 dolly parton song.
Okay, so now when we take a look,
if we ignore everything that we did earlier,
we just look from here and above,
we can see that we have two branches.
We're ignoring master.
We have Serena and we have bjorn,
and Serena has two commits that don't exist on bjorn,
and bjorn has two commits that don't exist on Serena,
but unlike the previous merge we did,
where we were merging this ABBA branch
with the master branch,
there were no conflicts there.
Here, there are definitely conflicts
because we're editing the same file
and some of the same lines,
so when I switch, right?
I'll switch one more time from Serena now to bjorn,
we can see there's a lot of changes going on in there,
so when I try and merge the two,
we're gonna run into an issue,
so now I have to decide where I want to do the merging.
Do I want them to still have separate branches
and just continue to have separate branches?
If so, maybe I'll make a third branch.
I'll call that one, what should it be?
git switch -c combination, or just combo,
and I'm branching from bjorn.
That's where I am now,
so it will include all the stuff from bjorn,
and then I can merge in the changes from Serena.
Okay, so now I have this new combo branch.
It's at the same spot, right, as bjorn.
They're referencing the same commit.
Now I'm gonna merge in serena, so here we are.
I'm on combo,
which contains the same stuff as the bjorn branch.
I'm gonna do git merge serena, and here we go.
It tries to auto-merge.
Nope. Conflict.
Merge conflict in songs.txt.
Automatic merge failed;
fix conflicts, and then commit the result,
so we go to our editor.
I'm using VS Code.
You can see it does some nice highlighting for me,
and we have those markers I mentioned,
so you can see HEAD right here.
From that line down to here, those equal sign,
this is what we had on the branch originally.
In our case, it was the combo branch, so we can see it.
It's bjorn's changes, and then here, this is the change
or the changes we had coming in from the serena branch,
and I have to decide: do I want just serena stuff?
Do I want just bjorn's?
No, I want both,
so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna delete these markers.
We get rid of those, so all of that,
and then I'm going to keep,
you know where they have overlap,
for example, "Dancing Queen" is on both of them,
I don't want "Dancing Queen" twice, so I'm gonna do that,
and otherwise, I think everything is unique.
The point is it's up to me.
It's totally up to me what I wanna keep and don't keep,
and in this case, I mean, if we're doing a playlist,
two friends, I guess it's fair,
it's equitable to allow them both,
just take both of their songs and combine them,
but if I wanted to, I could say, you know what?
I only like Serena's songs.
I'm getting rid of you, bjorn, and I could do that.
Could just get rid of that,
say this is what we're going with, but I'm not going to.
I'm gonna keep both of their songs in there,
and I just removed the duplicate, which was "Dancing Queen,"
so now I save,
so go back to this guide here.
First step, open the files. Second, edit the files.
Third, remove the conflict markers. We did that.
Fourth, add the changes and make a commit,
so whoops, I need to go back to my terminal.
We type git status,
and it tells us we're on this branch combo, unmerged paths,
and it tells us this songs.txt file has been modified,
so now we just add the changes, okay?
And then we commit, git commit -m,
and we can just do something like "resolve conflicts,"
or it's up to you, really,
but I'll just do "resolve conflicts"
to keep it short and simple,
and that's what this commit is.
This commit is us
merging and resolving those conflicts, okay?
So now let's head over to our little visualization here.
It looks exactly the same as what we had earlier.
It's the same process, right?
We merged this branch, serena, into combo,
and we have this new merge commit.
The difference is that we had to do some work
to make that commit.
We didn't just approve a commit message,
like we did a couple videos ago.
Instead, we actually had to dig into a file
and make some changes.
We had to look at those markers
that get adds for us, these things,
and figure out what we wanted to keep from the two branches
and then make changes, save, and then add and commit,
but now that conflict has been resolved,
and we're on our new branch combo,
which includes the commits that it had earlier,
from bjorn and the new commits from serena
and the conflicts there that we manually resolved.

--- Using VSCode To Resolve Conflicts ---

Instructor: Alright, so next up
I'd like to show another example of resolving conflicts
but this time I'm gonna show you how to do it using VS Code.
So VS Code has some nice built-in functionality
to help you resolve conflicts
or it can help in some scenarios.
So I'm just going to come up with another situation
that will cause a merge conflict.
What I'm gonna do is go to my master branch,
which I'm currently on.
We'll ignore the combo, the serena,
the bjorn branches for now.
I'm gonna go to the master branch
and I'm gonna make a new branch from here.
So currently on master, we just have four ABBA songs
and three podcasts in the podcast file.
So I'm gonna make a new branch.
Let's do git switch. You know what?
Why don't I, just to be different,
I'll use git checkout -b.
If you remember, this is another way
of making a branch and switching to it.
It's the old way of doing it before git switch.
It's -b to make the branch and switch to it.
It's kind of confusing.
The alternative is git switch -c.
Anyway, I might be screwing you over
by mixing and matching them.
I don't know, maybe I'm...
I'm telling myself it's better to expose you to them
so that you see the different options.
But maybe it's just confusing. I apologize.
Anyway, this branch is going to be called...
How about, I don't know, silence.
Okay? So git checkout -b silence.
And this playlist, the person who wants silence,
they're going to go to their playlist and remove everything,
all songs and all podcasts like that.
And they're going to add and commit. So git add.
Let's just add dot, git commit,
empty podcasts and songs files.
Alright, so that's our first half, right?
We have our branch silence
that we basically just emptied everything out of.
We still have the files though.
Then I'm gonna switch back to master. git switch master.
And what should we do? Let's add a podcast.
So The Lead, Radiolab, this American Life.
One I liked recently is Recipe Club
and another one is Broken Record, a great music podcast.
And then we'll add a song in here.
Should we do another ABBA song?
How about "Waterloo" by ABBA?
Alright, so I'm gonna add and commit those.
git add ., git commit.
Let's just go with, I don't know, something generic.
Add podcasts and songs.
It's not a very, it's not a good commit message at all
but just keeping it quick and simple.
Okay, so this is where we stand now.
On my master branch, I have this new commit,
add podcasts and songs, right?
I added this right here, "Waterloo" by ABBA
and these two podcasts.
But before I did that, I branched off
and that's where we created our branch called silence.
And on the silence branch I did one thing
and one thing only, which was I emptied out those two files.
So I have a new commit on silence
and I have a new commit on master.
I'm going to try and merge them.
And as we know, that should generate a conflict
because it's not as simple as a fast forward
and Git can't figure out automatically how to merge these
because we edited this podcast file, both on this branch
and on the silence branch.
And we did the same thing for the songs file.
So if I wanna merge in the silence branch to master
I'll check git status. Okay, we're good to go.
git merge silence.
And now we have an example
where we have two files with conflicts.
So that's another thing I wanted to demonstrate.
You're not always just gonna get one file.
Sometimes you can get a whole bunch of files,
especially if...
Well, we can address that later.
If things have gone wrong
or you're not really getting your coworkers' code
as frequently as you should.
Let's say, you do a whole bunch of work for a year
and then you come back to the office
and you try and merge things into master,
it's not gonna go well.
Anyway, two files with conflicts, songs and podcasts.
Automatic merge failed. Fix them and then add and commit.
So I wanted to show how to do this with VS Code
where there's a built-in interface.
So most editors, code editors have some support for this.
This is really nice if you have to resolve conflicts.
We don't have to manually go and delete everything, right?
If I want to accept silence,
if that's what I want on this branch,
I merge in the changes from silence
and I want the silence version, so the empty files,
I can click accept incoming change.
This is the incoming change.
Or I can accept the current change,
what we already have on master.
Or I can accept both changes,
which it's not gonna look like anything
because silence, as you can see, there's nothing here.
We deleted it, right?
On that branch we committed an empty file.
So in each of these files where there's a conflict
I could go about it manually, delete these markers myself,
choose what I want, or I can just accept incoming change.
So it does it for me, not that impressive
because it just deletes what was in there.
But that's only because our incoming branch was empty
in this file.
So I could do that.
Or if I wanted to, I can put anything in here.
Just I can add changes in here, silence,
and save that and add and commit.
It's totally up to me. I'm not limited to just either or.
Sometimes when you're resolving conflicts,
you may need to go in and add additional code
or a comment to explain something.
So it's not always just a binary.
This one, that one. Sometimes there's a bit of a gray area.
So I'm gonna accept the incoming change again,
or maybe I'll just show you.
If you clicked accept current change
we end up with what we currently had on master
but I'm gonna delete that.
We've now gone to silence in both of them.
We merged in those changes
that was coming from our silence branch
and now I can go over to my terminal.
Oh, by the way, here the GUI also shows me
that there's conflicts,
and specifically it would even show me
where the conflicts are and I guess I can resolve them here.
I've never used GitKraken to do that,
but that's kind of cool.
Anyway, I'm gonna go to my terminal and git status.
We have those two files we modified
so I'm gonna add them and git commit
and just do something like merge silence branch.
And there we go.
Now we take a look at the GUI
and we can see we merge that silence branch into master.
And with that merge it doesn't look like much
because our files are both empty.
But that did indeed come from the silence branch.
We still have this whole history on master,
a whole bunch of commits that came before it.
You can see that with git log, right?
All these commits and then we have merge silence branch.
And we can see empty podcasts and songs files.
That is the commit
that came from the silence branch right there.
Okay, so that's just another example of resolving conflicts.
In this case, we had two files that we resolved.
You can have, I mean, as many as there are.
There's no limit on that and we fix 'em all in the same way.
You open each one up, figure out what you want to keep,
keep the incoming branch changes,
the current branch changes, or both,
save your files
and then make that new commit to merge them, okay.

--- Merging Exercise ---

Instructor: All right, so once again
it's time for you to get a bit of practice
with what we've been talking about.
This time it's an exercise on merging and conflicts.
Now this exercise is a bit different,
it takes a different form.
Instead of just following a step-by-step set of instructions
where I could have asked you to make this file,
make this branch, merge that branch into this branch
and then fix the conflict.
I could tell you exactly the steps you need to do
to create a merge conflict and then resolve it.
Instead of that, it's gonna be kind of the opposite.
I'm gonna tell you that I want specific requirements
for our merge.
For example, I want you to create a scenario
that results in a fast forward merge.
So I'm not gonna tell you the name of the file
what to change, what to add, what to commit, what to merge.
All that I have are these three scenarios
and then you need to engineer them.
And while it may not be as easy to follow
or as mindless in a way where you just step by step
do what the instructions say,
it's definitely a better test
of your understanding of how merging works.
So you'll need to make a new repo,
make a file or two in the repo of your choice.
Name it whatever you want.
It doesn't matter, just someplace you'll be working in.
So I'll call mine greetings.txt.
So I recommend you just stop right now and try it.
The instructions are pretty straightforward.
Basically, it will say something like, make a new branch,
do some work in the repo, it's very vague.
Do some work in the repo such that
when you merge that new branch into master
it generates a fast forward merge.
So what does that mean?
Where do you do that new work?
What does it look like?
It doesn't matter what it actually looks like,
the contents of a commit,
but just generate a fast forward merge.
Same thing here.
Create a new branch.
Make some changes to the repo
such that when you merge the new branch into master
it results in a merge commit.
So again, very vague
and this should not result in any merge conflict.
So you have to understand or you have to try and think about
how do I create a conflict and how do I avoid a conflict?
And then the final piece is to do the same thing,
work on a new branch, make some changes
to that branch or to master or both, who knows, being vague,
such that when you merge the new branch
into the master branch, it results in a merge conflict.
So merge it, see if you're right
and then resolve the, hey, there we are,
I don't know why that would didn't load all the way,
resolve the conflict.
So I'll try this,
but I recommend you do it on your own.
This is a very important exercise.
Merging is important to understand the distinction
between these types of merges.
So I'm gonna make a new folder
make directory merging exercise,
I'll CD into that, make sure I'm not in a repo, I'll init.
And then I'm just gonna add this file, I'll be working with
I'll call it greetings.txt and I'll add and commit.
So this is on the master branch by default,
add greetings file.
So the first bit is generate a fast forward merge.
So make a new branch and do some work on that branch
or somewhere, so that when I merge it into master
we get a fast forward merge.
So I can name this branch anything.
I'm gonna go with Spanish,
because I'm doing these greetings, different languages,
I'll have like Hola and Bonjour
and hello and stuff.
So I make this new branch
and to generate a fast forward merge.
Again, I hope you're pausing and doing it yourself,
but if you need a reminder,
all that needs to happen is that
when we branch off of master like we have
we don't touch master again.
We can add as many commits as we want to Spanish
and then we merge that into master,
but we don't change the master branch in the meantime.
So all that master has to do is catch up on these commits
that we've added to Spanish.
So if I open my files,
so open, I'll just open everything in this folder.
Here it is, I'll add in Hola in Spanish.
So that's our greeting and we'll add this.
I'm just gonna do a single commit
that will give me a fast forward merge.
So git commit -m, add Spanish greeting.
Now I'm on the Spanish branch.
The goal is to merge the branch into master.
So I need to switch to master.
And then, I'm gonna generate that fast forward merge
by git merging Spanish.
So git merge the Spanish branch, whatever branch you did.
When we merge it in there we are
I got a fast forward merge.
So if you see that whatever your contents are,
whatever your file name is,
if you saw a fast forward, good to go.
So again, what happened is
that I had some changes on a branch, some new commits
just one commit in my example,
but it could have been 10 commits or more, doesn't matter.
But what matters is that my master branch that I merged into
has not changed or did not change in the meantime.
So all I had to do was catch up fast forward
to get those new commits.
Now that's gonna change with part 2.
Generate a merge commit with no conflicts.
So this time I'm gonna make a new branch
and make some commits on it.
But to generate a merge commit,
I'm also going to make a commit on the master branch.
And to make my life easier to avoid conflicts
git can sometimes merge stuff
in the same file without conflicts.
But what I'm going to do is just make a new file on a branch
and we know for sure there won't be a conflict.
So let me do this full screen here.
I'm gonna make a branch git switch -c French.
And then, on this branch I'm gonna add a new commit.
I'm gonna do some work.
So why don't I just add
to my greetings file, Bonjour.
Bonjour, nope, okay?
And then, I'll add that change.
So git add greetings,
git commit -m add French greeting.
So now this branch has a commit that master does not.
I'm not gonna merge just yet.
If I did, it would be a fast forward merge.
So now I'm back on the master branch
and I'm gonna make a new file.
What do you call
goodbye and au revoir?
Are those greetings?
Is there a term for that?
Ah, how about farewells.txt?
So I'll make this farewells file
and it's just gonna say goodbye.
So now I have some work.
If I add and commit on the master branch, a new commit
git add farewells,
git commit -m add farewells file.
That's on the master branch.
So now there's a commit on the master branch
that doesn't exist on the French branch,
and there's a commit on the French branch
that doesn't exist on the master branch,
but there shouldn't be conflicts,
because those commits don't overlap.
This commit was on the farewells file,
totally separate file.
The other commit on the French branch
was in the greetings file.
But even if they were in the same file
it doesn't necessarily mean there would be a conflict,
but we know for sure there won't be
or at least there shouldn't be.
So make sure no uncommitted changes
and now git merge French.
And we get this merge commit.
I'll just leave it as is merge branch French,
close outta there and there we go.
If I type git log, we now have that new commit in there.
Let's do it one line.
So here is where the French branch was,
the master branch was here,
and now we have a new merge commit,
and this is where the master branch currently points to.
Now the final piece is to do the same thing,
but now deliberately generate a conflict
and merge that conflict.
Well, not merge it, resolve the conflict.
So I'll make a third branch.
What do I want to change on one of those branches?
So I'm gonna change the same file, the greetings file.
On the master branch, I'll probably add hello in there
and then I'll make another branch
where I can add a different greeting.
How about Japanese?
If I can spell konnichiwa correctly,
we'll put that on the greetings file on the Japanese branch.
So I'm gonna make a branch right now
git switch -c Japanese.
So on this branch I'll put konnichiwa in there
and then I will add and commit,
git status, git add greetings,
git commit -m add Japanese greeting.
Now I'll switch back to master
and before I do any sort of merging,
I'm also going to make a change to greetings
and this will generate a conflict,
especially because it's on the last line.
And I just updated the last line on the Japanese branch.
So I'll put hello in here.
So now if I add this, git add greetings,
I'm on the master branch, git commit -m, add hello.
Now we're going to have a conflict.
When I merge that Japanese branch in,
it has a commit that updates this line
and there's a commit on this branch
that the Japanese branch does not have,
that also updates this line.
So we should get a conflict, git merge Japanese.
And we do, that's good,
because that's what the exercise called for, conflict.
So let's merge it.
I believe I just said resolve it in any way you'd like.
So I'm gonna keep both of them.
Why not?
So I'll do accept both changes if I use VS code,
I'll just click that
or I can just delete these symbols myself.
Up to me how I wanna handle that.
You don't have to keep both of them, but I will.
So we save and that's not enough to resolve it.
I mean, technically I guess you could say
we've resolved it in the file,
but if I type git status,
it tells me that we have unmerged paths.
And if I do a git log,
we don't actually have a merge commit yet.
So I need to add those changes.
Remember, after we resolve conflicts,
we add the files with the changes and then we commit
and we'll do something like resolve conflicts for now
or merge X branch, and now we are done.
So if we do our git log one more time,
we now see we have this new merge commit
where we resolved the conflicts ourself manually,
git couldn't just make the commit for us
and we successfully met those requirements.
So first off, we made a fast forward merge.
We did some commits on a branch,
we merged 'em into a branch that had not changed,
no new commits on that branch, so it just caught up.
Then we had two different merge commits.
One, where we tried to not have conflict.
So I just edited two different files, one on each branch,
and then one where we deliberately tried to get conflicts,
so I edited the same file,
two commits on different branches,
same line, there was a conflict, we resolved it
and then we added and committed and we are done.

--- Introducing The Git Diff Command ---

Instructor: In this video,
I'll introduce the git diff command
and we'll also learn how to read,
how to make sense of its output,
which can sometimes be a bit confusing
when you're starting out.
So the git diff command is all about showing changes in git.
So in a given repository, there are many situations
where we might wanna know what changed
between the last commits and our working directory.
What's changed between the staging area
and the working directory?
What's changed between two branches
or two different files over a certain number of commits?
What's changed between what we have locally
versus what's on GitHub?
All these different scenarios where we may want to learn
about changes, about comparisons.
So the git diff command does that.
The git diff command is powerful,
but also sometimes a bit overwhelming
when you're starting out.
It doesn't do anything to the repository,
doesn't impact anything.
Just like git status and git log,
it's purely an informative command.
So it's more about just taking a peek at changes
and trying to understand how things have changed.
Okay, so over here I've got a pretty large git repository.
I'll just show you.
There's a bunch of commits.
There's a decent number of files,
so lots of commits here, lots of files.
It's some HTML, some CSS, some JavaScript.
And currently I haven't changed anything
since the last commit, right on branch master up to date.
Okay, so then let's say I spend
a couple of hours making some changes.
I'm gonna fast forward, but I'll show you an example.
For whatever reason I decide, you know what,
I want this color to be magenta,
and this other color should be, let's go with cyan.
I'm just gonna use labeled named colors
so they're easier to identify.
Instead of, you know, this, let's do coral there.
Anyway, I'll make a bunch of changes.
Maybe I'll also change some HTML.
So in this HTML page,
I'm gonna change this h1 to say, "Hey there."
And then down at the bottom I'll make a paragraph
and it just says, "CHICKENS!!"
All right?
And then I go to this JavaScript file, grid.js,
and somewhere maybe in the middle
I'm going to print out a happy face.
Okay? And then back in a CSS file,
I change some font size from 35 pixels to 65 pixels.
And let's say I do a whole bunch more,
but this is just enough for this demonstration.
And I then realized, you know what?
I should probably make a commit.
I don't remember exactly what I did in each of those files.
So if I just go back and look at this file,
it's not immediately clear what's changed
unless I memorized or I exactly know
what the file looked like.
It's difficult to pinpoint exactly where things changed
across these three files.
So that's where git diff comes in.
The first usage of git diff,
it's just git diff without any additional options.
And this will list all the changes
in our working directory that are not staged
for the next commit.
So it compares the staging area and our working directory.
So I'll show you an example.
Currently I have not staged anything for commits, right?
If I type git status,
we see that there are three modifications,
three different files, none of them staged.
And if I run this git diff command,
we see this kind of crazy looking output.
It's another one of these windows
where I'm not actually in my terminal.
I have to, well, I guess I am,
but I have to escape this view by typing Q,
just like with git log.
So anyway, I see all of this
and it's a little bit crazy looking at first.
And we see some of the stuff that I changed.
We see some red, some green minus and pluses.
But then what is this?
These @ signs, -25,7,
minus, minus, minus, plus, plus, plus.
What's all this stuff go?
I mean, it's just kind of crazy looking
but this is the output of git diff.
So what I'm gonna do in the next video
is walk you through how to read this,
how to make sense of what's going on here,
what's this line doing?
You know, what's the minus and the plus mean
and all that stuff, that's coming up.
But this is just an introduction to the concept.
You make a bunch of changes,
then you want to try and understand more
about what those changes were.
And this is one use case for git diff.
We just don't really know how to make sense of it yet.
So that's the next video.

--- A Guide To Reading Diffs ---

-: Before we talk about the ways we can use git diff
the different variations, the options,
let's discuss the output.
So, the output that we get from git diff,
whatever the diff is that we're trying to generate,
it always follows a very similar pattern.
And it looks something like this.
You can see over here on the right,
it's kind of crazy looking.
I mean, we see hopefully, relatively clearly,
some of the code or changes in a file.
But then there's a bunch of stuff before.
We've got pluses.
We also have minuses.
We have weird looking symbols, these "@@s".
So, let's walk through what exactly is going on.
So for these diagrams, I'm using a very simple example
of a repository, where we have a file called "rainbow.txt".
And I made a commit.
It looked like this,
red, orange, yellow, green, blue, purple.
That's how I learned the rainbow when I was a little kid.
It was just blue and purple at the end.
But then, we make some new changes.
We haven't committed anything, but I made some changes
in the working directory in the same file.
And I updated it to be Blue indigo Violet, ROYGBIV.
Okay.
So, clearly we can see it's a a minor difference.
We changed the same file so that purple is gone.
We deleted that, and we added indigo and violet.
So, when I run the git diff command,
and again, I'll walk through doing that
and the different variations.
But I'll get an output that looks something like this.
So, there's a lot of stuff going on,
even just for that tiny little bit of a change.
Hopefully, you can see, right?
We see purple in red with a minus sign,
indigo and violet in green with a plus sign.
But let's talk about what we actually see
on this diff, on this output.
So the first thing up top, it's gonna say "diff"
and then "--git"
But then it's going to have the files
that are being compared.
Usually, these are actually going to be the same file
just two versions, the old version of Rainbow,
and the new version, right?
The version from the last commit
and the version in my working directory.
But it could be different files.
You would have to set that up yourself.
Typically, it's the same file
just over time.
Between commits, between branches,
between your staging area and your working directory.
It's the same file, typically.
So, Git is going to call one A and the other one B.
So, you can see "rainbow.txt".
The first one here is going to be A.
"rainbow.txt", the second one will be B.
So, we may get an output that's a lot more complicated.
But there's always going to be the first line
the files that are being compared, two files.
So, "helpers.scss" compared to "helpers.scss".
And here's what changed in that file.
And, here's another file.
"main.css"
"main.css".
So, if I just rerun the command that I had earlier,
we can see, it's telling me here is the diff
between index html and index html.
And then, I keep going down.
Now, we have a different file,
"grid.js" and "grid.js".
If I keep going down, here's another file.
"main.css",
"main.css".
Okay?
So, it's just telling us the two files,
usually, they're the same file over time.
Then, the next line does not matter for the most part.
I've never needed to ever take a look or understand it.
It's metadata about the files that are being compared.
Each file actually gets its own hash.
That's what we're seeing here.
But really, it doesn't matter.
And then, this is an internal file mode identifier.
Again, not important.
Then we see two lines of markers.
This is gits way of telling us that for file A,
whatever that is, it's going to be indicated changes
in file A will be indicated with a minus sign.
And file B will be a plus sign.
So, that part's hopefully straightforward.
Then, we get to chunks.
So, you might have a file that's 10,000 lines long.
You changed one line.
Git diff is not gonna show you the entire 10,000 lines.
It's going to show you the change,
that part that was changed.
And then a little bit of context before and after.
So we can see, you know, here's what was changed,
and then there's some context before.
And it's at the end of the file,
so there's nothing after.
Here, I changed this line here.
So, we get a little bit of context before
and then some after.
And then here's another change.
We got context before and after.
So, this file itself might have been
a couple hundred lines, I think it is,
but it's only showing us a small selection,
a small chunk around each change.
So, each chunk starts with a chunk header
which looks like,
oh, here's just multiple chunks by the way.
This is one file, "main.css".
It has one chunk and then a second chunk,
just two different areas in the file that were changed.
So, a chunk header is the header at the beginning
of each chunk, and you can identify them
by the two "@" signs on either side.
And then some weird looking numbers inside.
All right?
So, there are two pairs of numbers.
One set of these numbers corresponds to file A,
the other file B.
That's what the minus sign here indicates.
So, "--" as we see is for file A.
Plus is for file B.
Anyway, what these numbers are telling us
is how many lines have been extracted in this chunk.
So, how big is this chunk from file A?
And what part of the file do they start from?
So, it's kind of confusing.
You often don't,
I personally don't spend a lot of time looking at this.
I'm usually looking at the changes.
But, just so you understand how to read it.
This first bit says from file A, because the minus sign,
four lines have been extracted starting from line three.
So, this is not negative three, it's just three.
The minus indicates A.
So, four lines starting from line three.
And so, the next part from file B,
we have five lines starting from line three.
So, I'm gonna diagram that out here.
This is what our files looked like.
This is file A, this is file B.
Old version, from the last commits.
New version, same file.
But just what's changed.
Well, the chunk says from file A,
we get four lines starting from line three.
So, 1, 2, 3.
This is line three.
We get four lines.
Yellow, green, blue, purple.
Then, file B is going to include five lines
starting from line 3.
1, 2, 3.
So, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.
Now, one thing that is kind of confusing
is that it shows orange right here.
This is line two of our file.
Technically, this is not really part of the chunk itself,
depending on the language of your file.
If it's Python or JavaScript or something else.
Sometimes it'll display a little preview of a line.
Other times, this is something else
it's not reliably aligned from the chunk.
It's confusing.
So, it starts here.
Anyway.
So, what we have here are the two ranges, right?
Those numbers,
"3,4"
"3,5"
And then down below we have the actual changes.
So, this is the content of the file,
two files, superimposed
where we can see every line that starts with a minus,
it was a change that came from file A.
And every line that starts with A plus comes from file B.
So, these lines, yellow, green, blue are unchanged, right?
They exist in both.
But then purple, which is actually red,
but purple has that minus sign,
came from file A and it's not in file B.
And then, indigo and violets came from file B.
They're not in file A.
Usually, Git picks A and B for us
in such a way that you can think of file A
as like the old stuff and file B as the new stuff.
But, it doesn't always work out that way.
So, this tells us as we already know,
that yellow green and blue are in both files.
Nothing changed there, right?
Red, orange are both in there too.
They're just not part of this chunk
because it just picks a small little bit of context
around a change, and the change happened right there.
Purple turned to indigo and violet.
So, indigo and violet are new, purple gone.
So, here's a more complicated example.
This is for a style sheet, "main.css".
We can see up top,
same file just compared A and B.
Then we see the chunk header.
And then here's our chunk, some context,
and we see that we ended up with four new lines
in this chunk, added, as part of file B.
And then here, the second chunk in the same file,
it just skips down.
We're starting at what, line 63 now?
Instead of 22.
There's a whole bunch of stuff in between
that just doesn't show up.
We see that file A had these lines in red that are gone,
and file B has these, what?
Six lines that are new.
So, that's a basic concept for how these diffs,
these outputs work.
If we just go back here,
I know it's kind of crazy to look at.
But hopefully, you can step through
and understand what each line does.
So, this is telling us we're comparing two files,
same name just at different points in time.
What those points in time are, we can set up ourself.
We'll learn how to do that in the next couple of videos.
And then we see the stuff, the Metadata,
we really don't need to care about.
Then we see each version A and B are both assigned a symbol.
A gets minus, B gets plus.
Then we have the chunk header.
It tells us seven lines from line 25 are coming from file A,
and seven lines starting at line 25 are coming from file B.
Then, what we see here
are those seven lines from file A.
Right?
1, 2, 3.
This one came from A.
So, 4, 5, 6, 7.
And the seven lines from file B.
1, 2, 3, skip that one.
4, 5, 6, 7.
And then, of course the color coding is helpful
but this minus sign means it's a file A line
that only exists in file A.
This means it only exists in file B.
Usually, this means old versus new.
And then we've got a second chunk in the same file
where there's just a line that I added "CHICKENS"
that only exists in file B.
Nothing was removed or changed in file A, at this point.
And then we've got other files, right?
The same sort of idea applies to this different file
or to this JavaScript file.
There are different chunks exerted,
excerpt, excerpted?
Excerpt, I don't know how you say that.
Different excerpts from the files.
All right, so in the next video we'll talk
about different ways that we can use git diff,
and to make different comparisons
where we will see very similar looking outputs
that follow the same pattern.

--- Viewing Unstaged Changes ---

Instructor: All right, so now we're going to walk through
some of the different ways of using git diff.
We've got git diff, git diff HEAD,
git diff staged, and cached.
And then we have git diff HEAD with a file name,
git diff staged with a file name,
branch names that we can use.
We can put commit hashes in there.
So there's a lot that we can cover.
It all follows a very similar pattern though,
so it's not super difficult.
But I'm going to begin by making a very basic repo
that we can follow along with instead of this crazier one
with all these changes and tons of files.
I'm going to do just a trivial example.
It all works the same way.
So I'm not in a repo at the moment.
I'll init a repo,
and I'm going to make just a colors file, colors.txt.
And why don't I add a commit right now?
Git add
colors.txt, git commit.
We'll just do initial commit.
I'm just going to make some basic history.
And then here's my file.
So I'll add red into that file,
and then I'll do a commit -am,
which just means add everything,
and then M for message so I don't have to add in commit.
I'm going to just do this very quickly.
I'll probably fast forward.
So this one will be add orange.
I'm just going to build up the rainbow one commit at a time.
Maybe I'll do yellow and green together.
So this, let me clear,
will be "add yellow
and green",
and then blue
and purple.
So I'll do the same thing.
Add a commit message, "add blue and purple".
Okay, so we've got our rainbow set up now
and I have a tiny bit of history.
I have what, five commits so far?
Okay, that's enough for us to start using git diff.
So the first version I showed you, the only version,
is just git diff with nothing else,
and this will show us all the changes
in our working directory that are not staged
for the next commit.
So it compares staging and the working directory.
Also, staging is usually referred
to the index on the documentation, which is confusing.
Staging makes more sense.
So a lot of people say that.
Right now, if I run it, there's no difference
because there are no changes at all.
There's nothing in the staging area,
there's nothing in the working directory.
Nothing has changed.
So, if I instead do something simple like,
well, what I did in the last video,
if I remove purple,
and replace it as
indigo,
let's just save that.
If I type "git status",
we see, all right, there's something that's been modified.
And now if I type "git diff",
we see an actual diff.
So this is showing us a comparison between what the index
knows about and what the staging area has
versus the changes that we've made.
Another way of thinking about it is that the differences
are what we could tell git to add to the staging area.
So as we see here in our colors.txt file,
we're comparing one file to the next,
first version is "A" second version is "B".
So "A" is what the staging area knows about,
versus "B" is the changes we have in our working directory.
So "A" gets the minus sign, right?
"B" gets the plus sign.
So in the the version of our files
that the staging area last knew about,
purple was still there.
That's what that minus sign means.
Versus with the version
of the file that is actually in our working directory,
we see that indigo has been added.
So that's what the plus indicate.
It doesn't always mean something is new,
it just means that it came from file "B",
and in our case, file "B" are the new changes.
So that's all I'll show you in this video.
Just to make this point more time, git diff on it's own
will list the changes in our
working directory that are not staged.

--- Viewing Working Directory Changes ---

Instructor: The next version
we'll look at is get diff head.
So this will list all changes
in our working directory
since the last commit since head right?
Remember head is this pointer, this reference
to the last commit, typically the last commit on a branch.
So wherever head is, when we do git diff head,
we'll see the changes that we've made since head.
So that includes if we try this again here, git diff head
that includes staged and unstaged changes.
So right now, you know we see the same exact output
that we saw when I just did regular git diff.
This is showing all unstaged changes.
This is showing everything that has changed
since our last commit, since head.
However, if I stage something, if I do git add,
and then our file is called what Colors dot txt.
If I do git diff again, now we don't see any changes, right?
Nothing is showing up
because this is supposed to show me the difference
between my working directory and the staging area.
And right now they're the same.
But if I do git diff head, this is showing me the difference
between the head and my working directory.
So now we see the same thing we were seeing earlier.
So now let's go ahead and commit.
So git commit dash m, just add indigo.
And then I'm gonna do something different, now.
I'm going to make, what should I do?
I guess I'll make a new file
and this new file will be called
it doesn't really matter but it'll be numbers.
All right, so touch numbers dot T X T.
And in this numbers file,
I'm just gonna add the number one to begin with.
So I'll just spell it out in all caps, ONE.
Okay.
So currently numbers is untracked.
So if I try and do git diff,
we're not gonna see anything there.
However, if I add that new change
so git add numbers
dot txt.
Now if I do git diff
head,
we see that since our last commits,
we have some new stuff, right?
And it's just the fact that numbers dot txt now exists
and it has this line one inside of it.
The way that we can tell that there was nothing
there before,
the version A is actually dev slash null.
That's gits way of telling us nothing ,
compared to now having the file numbers.
So there was nothing really to compare it before
but that doesn't break it.
We just end up seeing only the additions because
there only are additions.
Okay, so git diff head shows us that.
But just one more time.
Git diff on its own.
It's only showing us unstage changes.
Nothing has been un or nothing is currently unstaged.
But if I add Violet, for example, to colors
and I do git diff
we only see a diff for colors because that's the only file
that changed that has not been staged.
Versus get diff head.
I just remind you here, numbers is staged, colors is not.
So if I do git diff head,
I see all changes staged on stage, it doesn't matter.
Anything new in the working directory
since head right and head, if you ever forget,
and head currently is pointing to this commit here.
So that's what we are comparing to.
So Git diff shows us all unstaged changes
Git diff head shows us all changes.
Staged and unstaged, since head.

--- Viewing Staged Changes ---

Instructor: Another variation of git diff
is to pass in this option --staged
or alternatively cached.
They do the same thing, just an alias.
Both of them will show us the staged changes,
only the changes that are staged.
So we've seen how to do all unstaged.
We've seen how to do staged and unstaged,
both of these options are how you do only stage changes.
Only show me the staged changes.
What is the difference between my last commit
and the staging area?
So I'll show this to you now.
If we take a look at git status, the same project,
project is a stretch, but the same repository,
changes to be committed, numbers.txt.
We added one into numbers,
then we have some changes for the colors file,
we added violet, but that is not part of the staging area.
So right now, if I can type it, git diff -- and the staged,
we only see those changes from numbers
because that's the only...
Change, versus if I do git diff on its own,
this is unstaged changes so we see colors
and if I do get diff head, we see both.
That's everything that has changed.
It doesn't care if it's staged or not
and then if I add in colors, so if I do git add colors,
now if I do git diff --staged, we see both
because both of those changes
have been staged at this point.
Also, we can use cached.
For whatever reason, I don't like cached.
I call it the staging area, staged makes more sense to me.
But I do believe the docs actually reference cached first
and then say staged is an alias of cached.
It doesn't matter.
All right, so quick quiz here.
Here's my git status.
What will I see if I do git diff?
Think about it.
Okay, the answer is nothing.
Well, I guess we see end, but there's no changes to display
because git diff is showing us unstaged changes,
there are no unstaged changes,
everything has been staged at this point.

--- Diffing Specific Files ---

Instructor: Another thing we can do is narrow
down the diff to a specific file or files.
So instead of just everything, right, all onstage changes
or are all stage changes or all changes since head
whatever we're actually looking at, we can narrow it
down and say only in this one file.
So currently, you know, we don't have a lot going
on here that we would want to narrow down
but if I do get daf, get daf, get diff staged
as we saw in the last video, I'm getting two files.
I'm looking at all changes that are currently staged
but I could say, actually only show me the numbers file
how that has changed.
And that's exactly what we see.
So as an example, let's say
I have this really large project I've been working on
I showed a couple videos ago where there's a lot
of CSS and I made a lot of changes in this main.CSS
and I wanna see what those changes are
since the last commits.
So I can do get diff head
but there are other files I changed too, right?
Index HTML, main CSS.
But also there's another file I changed a JavaScript file
here you can see that.
And this is still not a whole lot of changes.
Let's say it's been a couple of hours.
I just wanna see the changes
since my last commit to my CSS file main.CSS.
So this is the path style/main.css.
I can narrow it down, get diff
and then style/main.css.
And specifically what I want is get diff head
because I wanna see all changes, staged
or unstaged since the last commit in that one file.
And that's what we see.
So these changes are specifically
from this file and we can see, right?
Since the last commit I added these lines
I added this line and I added this line.
Really it's, I modified, right?
I edited a line, but Git doesn't show it that way.
It says this came from file A
it's gone in file B and this came from file B.
It's not in file A.
All right?
So that's how we can narrow it down to a particular file.
I can also do multiple, for example
there's also an index.HTML file.
I just separate them by spaces and now I have two files.
I'm looking at the diff for the main.CSS and for index.html.
So this also works.
If I wanted to see, you know, the stage changes
I don't think I have any, nope, they're all unstaged.
But if I wanted to
I could do dash dash stage, or dash dash cache.
And you know, other variations
I can narrow it down to a particular file or files.

--- Comparing Changes Across Branches ---

-: I can also use git diff
to compare changes between two branches.
So if I have two branches, currently I don't
in the repo I was showing you, but whatever branch one is
and branch two are, Git will do a diff
between the files in those branches,
so all the files in those branches,
although you can narrow it down as well.
So let's do a quick demo of that.
I need to make a branch, so why don't I commit the changes.
I added, what, Indigo and Vie,
or I added Violet, and I added my Numbers file.
Let's just go with "add violet and create numbers,"
and then I'll add a couple of numbers here,
one, two, three, four, git status.
Let's do, clear this, git commit -am "add more numbers."
Alrighty, and now, if I make a branch,
so I'm gonna create a new branch, git switch -c,
we'll call this branch, how about odd-numbers?
So on this branch, I'm only going to have odd numbers,
so I'm gonna delete two and I'll delete four,
I'll do a commit, so I'll add numbers, then I'll commit,
"removed two and four," okay, and then let's
also add five down at the bottom,
so we'll do a git add numbers, git commit "add five."
Okay, so right now, we have two branches,
nothing very exciting, but we have master and odd numbers,
and if I wanna do a comparison between the two
of them, I wanna see what has changed
from master to odd numbers or vice versa,
the order does matter, but I list the two branches
and I separate them by two dots,
or you can actually just add a space.
Both of them will do the same thing.
So let's do, which, let's do from master
to odd numbers first, so git diff master..odd-numbers,
and the only file that changed was Numbers.
We still have the Colors file on both branches,
but there's no differences, so there's nothing to display.
Now here, we can see that numbers.txt version A,
which is from the master branch,
because of that order that I wrote, master to odd numbers,
this one is from the master branch
and this one is from my odd numbers branch,
so we see that on the master branch,
which is, A, it has the minus sign
in front of it, that's its designated symbol.
We had one, two, three, four,
and we did not have this stuff, right?
Then on B, we have the plus sign as its symbol,
so we had one, three, and then five.
So that's new on the odd numbers branch
and it does not include two and four.
If I change the order, git diff odd-numbers and then master,
now, we see things have flipped,
so A has been assigned the minus sign,
but A this time is the odd numbers branch and B is master.
So here, right on the master branch, B with a plus sign,
we have one, two, three, four,
and it's the opposite of what we saw previously,
so that order does matter.
Also, just to make this clear, we get the same outcome
if we just use a space, but people like to use the dot, dot.
Maybe it makes it, I don't know, makes it clearer,
you know, that you're doing that comparison,
but you'll see both of them, and then,
let me just quickly change one of these files.
So let's do red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo,
violet, I don't know, odd numbers?
We'll only display the odd-numbered colors,
so if this is one, get rid of two.
That's three, we get rid of four, five, and six.
I dunno, I might've totally screwed that up, but whatever.
We have fewer colors here.
So now, we type git status. Let's make a commit here.
So I'll add the Colors file
and we'll just go with "remove some colors," alright?
So now, if I do a git diff, let's go
from master to odd numbers again,
we have two files that are showing up.
So the Colors file changed
from master to odd numbers, right?
On master, which is A, we had orange, green, and indigo.
They are not present on the odd numbers branch
and we didn't add anything new, but on the Numbers file,
we have the same thing we saw earlier.
We don't need to go over it again.
So now, we have multiple files because there were changes
to multiple files between those branches.
So that's how you compare branches
with git diff, dot dot, or a space between two branch names.

--- Comparing Changes Across Commits ---

-: The last variation we'll take a look
at is comparing two commits.
If you want to know what changed between two commits
not necessarily HEAD, right?
It could be any commit in the past.
We can use the same syntax, git diff
and then some commit hash.., some other commit hash.
So why don't we go back to master.
Git log.
Let's do oneline.
If I want to know what changed between, I don't know,
add red, so that commit, and add blue and purple, sure.
If I want to know what changed there,
I need to start by copying one of these commit hashes.
It's kind of annoying actually to keep track
of both of them.
So I'm just going to paste it in this file.
And then the second one I wanted was this commit hash.
All right, let's see what happened there.
So git diff and then the first one, .., the second one.
And we see the only file that changed was colors.
That's the only file really.
Well we did introduce the numbers file
but after this commit, so it
didn't even exist in either of these commits.
But here you can see the changes, right?
We added all this stuff
into the file between those two commits
and they're not necessarily consecutive commits
it's just all changes between those two commits.
And this also works if I have a space
just like with two branches, same diff.
Alright, so to recap those different versions
we can compare changes between two commits.
The order matters just like it does with two branches.
So all changes between all files
for two different branches or two different commits.
Then we saw that we can do the same thing
but actually narrow it down to one file or two or three.
We just call those files out afterwards.
So that also works for branches and commits.
And we saw that we can use the -- staged
or cached option to only see the changes that are staged.
To see unstaged changes only, we can use git diff
and then to see all changes since the last commit,
so everything that's new in the working directory,
staged or unstaged, git diff HEAD.

--- Visualizing Diffs With GUIs ---

-: So the last thing I'll show you here is
how to use Git Kraken
or a similar GUI tool to visualize diffs
to actually see them in a file
uh instead of having to see them in your terminal.
A lot of the time this is really useful,
especially if you're working on large projects
with tons of files,
And this is one of the areas I think GUIs shine
when you're working with Git.
So, here's Git Kraken.
Uh unfortunately,
as I've said a couple times before
I can't make this any larger,
so it lets me make it larger
up until this point,
which is still not very large.
So I'll do my best to try
and enhance and zoom in in post-production.
But here's my colors repository.
Very simple, right?
We have our initial commits.
We added red, orange, yellow, green,
add blue and purple.
It had indigo.
Then I created this odd numbers branch, right?
I removed two and four from the numbers.
It's this project file here: numbers and colors.
If I visually, if I want to see a diff,
let's start by making some unstaged changes right now.
Right?
Get status,
nothing to commit, working tree clean.
Uh so why don't I add something to colors like
I love the rainbow.
We'll save that.
And then in numbers, let's add five.
This is on the master branch.
Six
and seven like that.
All right, so now I have two files that have been changed
both of which are unstaged.
So, now, as it shows me here two file changes
in working directory
I can click to view those changes.
So that's what it's showing me here.
Unstaged and staged.
So I can click on either of these files
and it visually shows me this new change
showing it to me in the file here.
I love the rainbow was added,
it shows it in green
so you can see there also,
here's our little diff header.
It's not showing the entire file, right?
I can see, I can click to see file view or just diff view.
And then same thing
with numbers here it's showing me that
five, six, and seven are new.
They've been added.
Let's do something slightly different.
Let's delete, uh, for whatever reason,
I don't know.
We'll get rid of violet.
Okay?
So now go back to colors.
And it's showing me violet that has been removed
it's non-existent currently
versus I love the rainbow has been added.
And again, it's just showing me the diff view.
Uh and then if I wanted to, you know
if I stage one of these files, let's stage colors
I can go here and see, okay
here's the changes I have staged
here's the changes I've unstaged.
So if I stage both files
and I just wanna see that diff
now I can, you know, just go between them.
Nothing has changed in terms
of what is what's different and what's not different.
It's just,
if I was doing this with Git commands
I would do get diff,
versus get diff head,
versus get that get diff staged.
Here it's just a matter of clicking.
If they're in the staged files area,
then I'm viewing a diff for what is staged.
If they are not staged.
Here, I'm looking at the unstaged changes
from numbers dot T X T.
Uh, other things that we can do
if I get out of here quickly,
uh, sometimes I do get lost.
Here it is, can X out.
Um, if I wanna see changes between two commits,
for example,
I can click on one commit
like where we added indigo
and then hold down shift
and select another commit.
Like that.
And then over here it's showing me
viewing diff between two commits.
There's only one file that changed.
And this is what changed, right?
This is the difference between them.
So I removed purple,
I added indigo between those two commits.
Or, let's do a a more drastic difference
from the very beginning.
Or how about when we added red up to when we added indigo?
Here's what changed.
Or,
it could have multiple files involved.
I'll open a different project.
Okay, here's a much larger project
that 2048 app I was showing you right where
we had the more complicated diffs.
If I wanted to visually see the difference
between some commits, I could, I don't know
let's just pick two early commits
about
sure those two
I can see all of these files were changed,
although it looks like ten of them are renamed,
but four files were modified.
And then I can see the different chunks
I can see the chunk headers.
So this is visually for me a lot easier.
Uh, it's often a lot easier to work with
if I really am trying to understand the difference
between two commits or between two
two branches or something like that.
Doing it from the command line.
Good to know how to do and I still use that.
But if I really need to dig down into the changes
and like spend some time working through what's different
then I really like the diff view
from editors or from GUIs like Git Kraken.
So if I wanna see the same thing that I'm seeing over here
and I just type get diff head right?
This is everything that's changed
since the last commits
very early in the section.
I think the first or second video
I changed index H T M L.
I changed grid js and I changed main dot CSS.
So I can view that here.
I click on my work in progress.
So this is nothing you know, committed yet.
And then I can see the three files one at a time.
Here's what's changed in index.
I can visualize it pretty easy.
I can stage,
I can see what changed in the grid,
js file and in main dot CSS.
So I find this just better,
easier to work with than this,
personally.
And the last thing I'll show you is
if you want more context, you want the entire file.
Right now we're in hunk.
People call it hunk instead of chunk.
Sometimes they mean the same thing.
I'm viewing one chunk or one hunk at a time versus
inline view shows me the entire file
with the diff right there.
So I can find that one down there.
It's not too bad, but some of the files are longer, right?
So I've gotta scroll quite a ways if I want to
see everything versus if I go to hunk view,
I just see the three hunks
with some context around each change.
So that's it.
Nice part of Git Kraken and all these other GUIs.
They pretty much all offer a view like this.
It's pretty standard.

--- Diff Exercise ---

Instructor: Okay, so it's time to get some
practice with Git diff.
There are two very important announcements
or notes about this exercise upfront.
First of all, this exercise actually involves
an existing repository that you're going to download.
So stay tuned for those instructions in just a moment.
And second, the other important note is
that all these different variations that I'm
asking you to use in these different steps here,
you may not remember them all off the top of your head.
I wouldn't blame you if you don't.
So don't feel like, you know
we've talked about adding and committing and branching.
Those are like fundamental things you do day to day.
Diffing, you may do frequently,
but maybe not every flavor of git diff.
So I would say it's just not as crucial.
If you struggle to remember some of these,
I wouldn't feel bad, but make sure you can get the answers.
Make sure you understand, you know what command does what,
even if you can't recall it instantly.
It's fine to look things up.
Anyway, like all the other exercises,
there's a link in the resources for this video.
I definitely recommend you open it up
because in order to get started with this project,
with this exercise, it's not really a project.
You're going to need to do something we have not yet seen.
This is actually skipping ahead.
We're going to learn about a git command
once we get to GitHub called git clone.
So all that I'll say about it for now
is that as part of the setup for this exercise,
you need to copy this link or copy this entire line.
So I'm gonna do that right now.
And then we're going to run this from our terminal
and we're going to make sure we're not
in a git repository when we do this
because this is actually gonna make a copy
of a git repo that I've made.
It's gonna make a copy for you on your machine.
So let's try it.
I'll do it right here.
So I'm not in a git repository right now,
and I'm gonna run this command.
I just copied it.
I don't want those, when I copied it,
I don't want the little marks there.
Okay, so now I'm gonna hit enter.
And we get this output from Git.
Again, we're, we're gonna learn about this commands later
but I now have a new folder called git diff exercise.
So now I'm gonna CD into that.
That's the next step.
Change into that directory.
So CD and to git diff exercise.
And you'll see two files in here.
So I can open this code dot,
just open it in VS Code.
And here we go.
We have two files.
One for fleetwoodmac.txt, the band Fleetwood Mac,
and then another one for queen, the band Queen.
Now the way that this exercise works is
that there are actually two branches.
The current branch that you're
on by default is called current.
Now I recognize it's kind of confusing.
What I meant is that this is
the branch for the current lineups,
the modern 2021, 2022 lineups of these bands.
But there's a second branch that I've made already,
and you can access it by running
this command, git switch 1970s.
So I'll do that now.
And it is kind of weird.
You're not gonna see this branch
which is why I'm having you run this.
If you run git branch, we don't see a second branch.
We will learn why that is.
So I'm not gonna go into that
until we get to GitHub and remote branches.
But anyway, just follow these steps blindly.
It's okay, we will learn.
So now I have two branches, okay, 1970s and current.
I made both of those ahead of time for you.
Now you have them on your machine
if you followed these steps.
So if we look at the 1970s branch,
that's what I'm on right now,
we have some slight changes.
For example, the Queen file now has
Freddie Mercury as its singer.
Fleetwood Mac has a different lineup,
no keyboardist back in 1970.
Now this band Fleetwood Mac has had
a million lineup changes
and this is not entirely faithful
but the point is that there's two versions
of each file, two branches.
Each branch has the same two file names
but different contents.
So now that we have that set up,
we now have our diffs, the actual exercise portion.
So there are a bunch of steps where I'm asking you
to make different comparisons between the 1970s branch
and the current branch for all files,
between the 1970s branch and the current branch
but only for the queen.txt file,
or switch over to this current branch,
that's the name of it,
and run a diff to compare the current head
to the previous commit.
Basically there's a bunch of diffs I'm asking you to run.
Every one will involve a flavor of git diff.
Now towards the end, I actually ask you
to make some changes to a file.
Follow these directions pretty carefully.
For example, here I'm telling you to replace
Adam Lambert's name with your own name.
Save the change, add to the staging area.
So add that change, but do not commit.
So that sort of thing is important because it enables us
to you know, run different diffs
where some changes are staged,
some are not staged and some are committed.
Anyway, follow these instructions if you'd like.
I hope you do this exercise.
We're gonna make some comparisons between the different band
lineups over the years and stop watching at this point
because I'm now just gonna go through it myself.
So I did part one.
I have this repository.
I have these two branches, right?
1970s and current.
Now the first exercise, the first problem is
to compare the difference between the 1970s branch
and the current branch across all files.
So I can do that with git diff
and then just two branch names.
So I didn't specify which one, you know
you should compare first.
Remember that the order matters,
but I'll just say 1970s compared to now.
Chronologically, that makes more sense
because, well lemme just show you.
We see for example, you know what's changed like currently,
in Fleetwood Mac, Lindsey Buckingham is no longer part
of the band, sadly, and he's been replaced.
So this format makes sense, in my opinion,
where we have, you know, the old is the actual
chronologically older branch,
and the new is the current branch, but it doesn't matter.
So we also see, you know,
keyboard was set to none.
On the 1970s branch, there was no keyboard player.
And now in the current branch, it's Christine McVie,
and we also see the changes in the Queen file.
Now the second part of the exercise is to do the same thing
but only for the queen.txt file.
So still compare the two branches,
but I can narrow it down, just like that as a third value.
Just gimme that one file and here we are.
What's changed?
Well, Freddie Mercury exists in the 1970s branch.
Adam Lambert is in the current branch.
Mike Gross is in the 1970s branch.
And Neil Fairclough, I don't know.
He's a new addition to the band actually.
What's his name?
Roger Deacon I think was his name,
was the real, the main bass of the band
but he's actually not part of it anymore.
So he kind of got lost between 1970s and 2021.
But we don't have a middle branch.
Anyway, next up, step three,
switch over to the current branch
if you're not on it currently.
So I'll do that.
I'm on the 1970s branch, git switched to current,
and then it says run a diff to compare the current head
to the previous commit.
Basically if we do a git log,
I wanna see what happened between where we are right now.
This is head and this commit.
So there are multiple ways of doing this.
I mean I could copy these commit hashes and do a diff
between them or I could just say what's the difference?
So git diff between head,
and then the prior commit the parent of head,
head tilde one.
And this is what changed in that commit.
I changed, the bass is John Deacon,
I think I said Roger Deacon, it's John Deacon.
Anyway, I updated him.
He left the band and was replaced by this guy.
So the way that I've written this right now,
is that we're looking at head compared to head tilde one.
I would probably do it this way instead.
Like this so that we can see what was added
in the newest commit and what was removed, right?
It's the same change.
It's just the order was slightly different.
But you could also get that commit hash as I mentioned.
So we could just copy part of that hash
or the whole thing and do a git diff compared to that.
So this is the same thing as this.
And then here we're just flipping the order.
So this is comparing head tilde one to head,
and this is comparing head to head tilde one.
So the new commit to the parent
or the parent commit to the child.
Okay.
The next step, while on the current branch
change the queen.txt file
by replacing Adam Lambert with your own name.
Save the change, add that file to the staging area.
Do not commit.
Okay, so let's try that.
I'm gonna change Adam Lambert and put my own name
Colt Steele, and I'm gonna save,
and then I will just run git status.
I will add that file.
I'll stage it like the instructions say
but I'm not going to commit.
Okay, now edit the Fleetwood Mac file
changing the lead singer from Stevie Nicks to Stevie Chicks.
One of my chickens is Stevie Chicks.
So we'll save that file, but we're not going to stage it.
So Stevie Nicks becomes Stevie Chicks,
and I saved it but I'm not going to stage that.
Okay, now we get to do some more diffs.
Run a diff that reveals the unstaged changes
in the working directory.
So I should only see the change that we made
to fleetwoodmac.txt.
So what is the command I can do to view that?
Well it's gonna be git diff something,
and if actually it's just git diff.
So git diff on its own, it's going to show me in this case,
the unstaged changes.
It's not gonna show me the changes
that I already staged right?
To do that, that's the next little bit here.
Run a diff that would reveal only the stage changes.
So I should only see that change we made to queen.txt.
I should see my name.
So how do I do that?
Well, it's gonna be another git diff
but we need dash, dash staged or cached.
And there we are.
We see Colt Steele or whatever your name is
replacing Adam Lambert.
And then finally run a diff that prints all changes,
both files that we changed the stage file
and the unstaged file since the prior commit.
So we can do git diff head.
So take current working directory,
staged and unstaged changes,
compare that to the head commit.
So here's what changed in Fleetwood Mac,
and here's what changed in Queen, okay?
So I know this was kind of a tedious exercise
but I had to try and come up
with something that you could follow along with
and try and run some diffs on your own
and get some practice with the different commands.
You know, I don't know how successful this was,
but I hope you followed along and enjoyed it.
Don't get hung up on this bit around git clone
and how this all works.
We will be spending a lot of time on that later on.
This just enabled me to give you some starter code or files
and branches so you could just get going with the diffs.
All right, moving on.

--- Why We Need Git Stash ---

Instructor: Okay, so we will soon learn
what git stashing is in this particular commands.
In this video, I want to explain why it's a thing.
What is the problem that git stashing or git stash solves?
So imagine for just a moment here
we're working on a repository and I'm on the master branch.
You can see up top on the right side, I've
I've got a single file I'm working on.
A Python file called cat.py.
So I'm doing a whole bunch
of work and then I make some commits
and then I switch over to a new branch.
I just make that new branch.
I switch to it, it's called puppy
and I do some more work over here.
And then I have some uncommitted work on this puppy branch.
So I never committed this dog file, for example.
And then I need to switch back to master.
I don't know why, something's wrong,
I need to switch back quickly.
What happens if I have a file or a hundred files,
if I have uncommitted changes
on one branch and I switch to another branch?
Well, there's really two options.
One is that those changes will just come
with me to the, to the destination branch.
They'll just come along and show
up on the master branch in this case.
The other option is that git won't let me switch.
And I actually showed this early on when I first
introed branching, git will give you a message
if there's a conflict between files,
it's not gonna let you just switch
to a new branch and bring that conflict over.
So I'm gonna show this in a very simple way.
I'm gonna try and illustrate it here
with some HTML and some CSS in a new git repo.
But this is a problem or it could be a problem.
There are lots of times you might be working
on something but you're not done.
You don't wanna make an actual official commit
but you need to go somewhere else.
You need to go to a different branch.
A coworker asks for help.
You realize that there's a really simple typo
that you could fix in a different branch.
You don't need to wait until you make a commit
on your current branch because we can stash changes.
So let me show you a situation where this would be useful.
I am in a new folder it's just called stashing,
just a little demo. It's not a repo at the moment.
I am going to make it one
and I'm gonna make an index HTML file and an app.css file.
So if you don't know CSS and HTML, it's totally fine.
I'm just gonna illustrate this here.
I'm gonna make a simple HTML file.
I'll just call it 'hello.'
I'll have an h1 one in here.
A heading 'Hello World.'
Again, the HTML is not the point of this video.
And I'll add some lorem ipsum in a paragraph.
And then I'm gonna connect this app.css file.
So I'll just do a link app.css.
Okay, so nothing crazy.
I have an empty CSS file and if I view my file
in the browser, this is what it looks like right now.
And let's just say that's all I want on the master branch.
So I'm gonna add and commit,
git add, git commit everything.
Okay? Create index html and app.css.
Okay, so this is done on the master branch.
Now I create a new branch.
So git switch, let's just do it dash with C.
And I'm gonna call this branch something
like purple for example.
And I'll show you why in a moment.
I'm gonna work on making a purple version
of this website where I add some changes into app.css
that will make my website purple.
So I'll do things like h1 should have a color of purple.
I'll save, I refresh. And there it is.
We have some purple there.
Maybe I'll do, the body has a purple background color.
Background color should be, let's not do purple.
Let's do, is there
like a light purpley color that I can just name?
Okay, I chose lavender. Okay, I don't know
if that's gonna show up great on a screen recording
but you can see I've made some changes here.
We have some purpley stuff.
However, I'm not going to commit, for whatever reason
I need to go back to master for a moment.
I've been called away and I'm gonna switch.
So right now, if I type git status, we can see it says,
oh you have some changes in app.css.
They're not staged for commits.
There's no commits on this branch.
If I switch right now to master,
git switch master, hmm no problem.
I didn't get a warning
or I didn't get an alert that says you can't do that.
I'm on master right now but I still see this purple webpage.
My changes came with me.
So that was the first scenario here.
If I make changes and they're not committed,
they can come with me
to the destination branch, assuming they don't conflict.
And I don't have any conflicts here, right?
This is basically a, if I was merging
it would be a fast forward.
But anyway, nothing has been added or committed.
And you'll see if I typed git status, it still says
you know, those changes are not staged for commit right now.
Okay, so that's one option.
If I go back to purple, git switch purple,
I can add those changes
and you know, git commit, make stuff purple.
Okay? And then I'll go back to master, git switch master
and now those changes are gone.
They didn't come with me because I added, I committed them
over on the purple branch and then I switched over.
They didn't come with me. Great. Okay, so next step
I'm gonna show this second scenario, which is also common.
If git detects potential conflicts
it's not going to be happy with us.
It won't let us switch branches
if we haven't added and committed those changes.
So I'm gonna make a new branch here, git switch dash C
I'm on master, and this new branch, let's see
maybe I'll change the name of our webpage.
I'm going to call it 'goodbye.'
All right, so goodbyeworld, and I'll just do goodbye,
it's easier to type.
Alrighty. So I'm on this new branch
but before I do anything on the new branch
I'm gonna go back to master, git switch master,
and I'm gonna change something on here.
Instead of hello world, let's do hello world with a bunch
of exclamation points like that and a bunch up here.
Okay, so now I'm gonna add and commit my changes
on master git add dot, git commit dash M, you know,
update hello greeting.
Now I'm gonna switch back to our goodbye branch.
So at the moment, goodbye,
this Goodbye branch still has the older version, right?
We don't have all these exclamation points.
And if I update this to be goodbye world
and this says goodbye here
but I don't add and commit, I switch over to master
from here. I have unstaged uncommitted changes.
I'm gonna switch back to master, it won't let me.
This is that second scenario, your local changes
to the following files would be overwritten
by switching, or by checkout, index.html.
Please commit your changes
or stash them before you switch branches.
So this is a common scenario
at least somewhat common where I need to switch over
I need to go back to this master branch for whatever reason.
Imagine it's a much more complicated project.
I need to switch over to some branch.
It doesn't have to be master
but I have work that is uncommitted
on my current branch and git is not gonna let me switch
or I don't want the changes to come with me.
Like I didn't want those purple changes to come
with me when I switched to master.
So this is where git stash comes in.
If I don't want to commit,
I'm not ready to make a commit, it's unnecessary,
I can use git stash to sort of pause, to save my changes
without actually committing them.
So that's what we're gonna learn how to do
in the next video.

--- Stashing Basics: Git Stash Save & Pop ---

Instructor: Alright, so let's learn a bit more
about how stashing actually works.
We've talked about why we've kind of motivated it.
Let's see the commands.
Fortunately for us, Git provides a command called git stash
that helps us stash uncommitted changes,
and it allows us to return to them later
without having to clutter up our history
with unnecessary commits.
We generally, I mean, you can make a commit
with stuff that you know is not quite complete
or that you're not ready to commit.
It's not the end of the world to have those extra commits,
but a lot of the time you don't wanna do that.
Commits kind of are viewed as
like the official history of your project.
And if you're just screwing around, for example,
or you're halfway done with a feature
and you just need to quickly switch over,
stash really can be helpful.
So the command git stash, just git stash,
at any point will take all uncommitted changes,
basically anything staged or unstaged,
and it's going to stash them.
It kind of hides them away, but it remembers them
and it reverts those changes in our working copy.
So we don't see those changes anymore,
but they're still available in that stash
that we can come back and retrieve them.
So the command git stash is also,
basically it's a short version of git stash save.
It's just, this is a, I guess, an alias for it.
They do the same thing.
They save your current uncommitted,
your staged and unstaged changes,
so that you can come back to them.
So it saves those changes, does not make a commit.
And then we could switch branches, just as a quick example.
And then at any point I can use git stash pop
to remove the most recently stashed changes in the stash
and reapply them to my working copy, wherever I may be.
So I can also use git stash to stash some changes
and then maybe a little while later,
reapply them to a different branch
or to the same branch that I stashed them on.
So I'll show that.
And I'm gonna show a little workflow here, some diagrams.
So let's say I'm on the bugfix branch.
You can see I've got the working directory.
Some changes I've made.
I've modified two files.
I've staged two files,
but I'm still not ready to make a commit
for whatever reason.
And then here's the actual repository with our commits.
And I'm working on fixing a bug, but then, hmm.
One of my coworkers, he needs help.
Says, "Hey, can you take a look
"at what I merged into master
"and make sure I didn't screw up everything?"
Okay, so I need to quickly hop over to master,
but I need to first stash my changes
because I'm not ready to commit them.
They conflict with what's on master.
I don't wanna take them with me.
Whatever reason, I'm gonna stash them.
So what I do is run git stash.
Git stash, or git stash save
will undo those changes.
I don't lose them,
but it reverts the changes in my working directory
and it stashes them away.
So I'm just visualizing, you know, four files here.
If I go back, we had three modified,
one that I created in green.
Same thing here.
Both the staged and unstaged changes,
they're all in the stash.
So now I can hop over to the master branch.
I can do whatever I need.
I can even make new commits on the current branch.
I can really do anything
without having to worry about those changes coming with me.
And then when I'm done, I can reapply those changes.
So, I can go back to my bugfix branch where I was,
and then call git stash pop,
which will take the changes that were in the stash,
pop them off, and add them back into my working directory
or in the staging area,
and I can keep working exactly where I was
before all of this happened.
So I'm gonna demonstrate this in the next video.
But those two commands,
git stash and git stash pop go hand in hand.
Git stash puts stuff in the stash.
Git stash pop removes the most recent thing from the stash.

--- Practicing With Git Stash ---

Instructor: All right.
So let's try using the git stash command,
or git stash save, in order to add our unstaged
and staged changes to the stash.
So back here, I've got our Goodbye World
that I've changed, right?
Goodbye World and Goodbye up in the title.
And this is on the branch called Goodbye.
That's where I am right now.
But I have not committed those changes.
Let's also do one more thing, like maybe in my app.css,
I'm gonna make the body have a background color
that's really obvious, background color of,
I don't know, magenta.
And again, this doesn't really matter if you don't know CSS,
but I've made a very obvious background color magenta,
and it says "Goodbye World!!" up here
and the title is Goodbye.
So those are the changes I've made.
And I need to switch to master right now
for whatever reason,
and I don't wanna take these changes with me,
not to mention the fact that they actually conflict.
I can't take at least the index HTML change with me,
because as we saw previously,
it conflicts with what we have on the master branch.
So I don't want to commit. I'm going to use git stash.
So if I type git status,
if I can actually type it correctly,
you can see two files that have been modified.
I'm going to call git stash save, or just git stash.
Same thing.
And it tells me "Saved working directory and index state."
Index is just what Git calls the staging area.
So it saved the staged and unstaged changes on this branch,
but it did not commit them.
So if I type git status now, we don't see anything,
nothing to commit, working tree clean.
And if I take a look at my files here,
we're back to Hello World!
We don't have the magenta at all,
and if I refresh the page, it's gone.
So those changes are not here.
And now, I could switch to whatever branch I need to,
git switch master, which remember, earlier,
it said I couldn't do because of conflicts.
Now, I'm on the master branch,
we can see here's our Hello World! from before
with all the exclamation points.
And then I could go anywhere else,
I could apply these changes here if I wanted,
or I can go back to the branch I was on before.
So git switch back to goodbye,
and this is what we're dealing with on goodbye.
And if I want to then get those changes back
that I've stashed away, we use git stash pop.
So this will take the most recently stashed changes,
and yes, we can have multiple things in the stash,
we'll get to that, but most frequently,
most commonly, in my experience, we just have one,
I have one thing in the stash at a time.
Anyway, so I'm gonna reapply those changes
to my working copy, which is right here.
git status, just to show you.
It says "nothing to commit."
We don't see that magenta in here.
We don't see Goodbye World.
And now, git stash pop and it tells me,
okay, we added those changes back in for you.
You modified this file, app.css.
You modified index HTML.
And now, if I take a look at my file, it says goodbye again.
If I look at app.css, it has magenta in there.
If I refresh my page, we see those changes now
in the browser where I'm viewing the webpage.
Cool.
So we successfully stashed some changes
and then we applied them.
We popped them off.
All right, so next up, I'll show you some more examples,
and we'll talk about some other stash-related commands.

--- Git Stash Apply ---

-: Okay, so there is more
to using Git Stash and I'm gonna show it
to you throughout the rest of this section.
But I'm gonna be honest upfront, at least in my experience
90 something percent of the time I use anything
with the stash or with stashing
it's just git stash and git stash pop.
So those are the two things I use the most.
Put something in the stash and pop it when I need it.
However
we can also use something called apply get stash apply
which will take whatever's in the stash
and apply it in the same way that POP does except
with Apply the stash stays in the stash, or in other words
the changes are still in the stash and we can apply them
in multiple places versus with pop, our changes are removed
from the stash after they're applied.
So I'll demonstrate this.
This could be useful
if you wanted to have some stash changes that you
need to apply in multiple places across different branches.
I'm just gonna come up with a pretty contrived example.
I guess all of the examples so far have been
so we're on this goodbye branch.
If I type get status
we have these changes, the goodbye changes, right?
We can see that here, goodbye world.
But I haven't added or committed them
so I could just stash them again.
Git stash.
Alright, now we type Git status
and everything's clean working tree clean.
And if I refresh the page
we see it says Hello world now, right?
It doesn't say goodbye, it doesn't say goodbye here
and we don't have that magenta background.
Okay, so I have those changes stashed away
and I can go to a different branch.
Should we go to master get switched master?
Let's see what are we working with here?
Sure. So I'm on master now and if I wanted to
apply the changes that are in the stash
which makes the background magenta of the body
and it also changes this to say goodbye world
and the title to say goodbye.
I can do git stash pop, that would be one option.
But if I also wanna apply this somewhere else
I can do git stash apply and we get a conflict.
You can see here it says auto merging index
H T M L merge Conflict in index.
So now it's complaining to me just like any other merge
we've done, the difference is that here we applied something
from the stash and that generated the conflict
versus merging a specific branch.
But it works the exact same way.
I need to decide, well which one of these do I want?
Do I want hello or goodbye?
So I'll keep the changes that are coming from the stash.
So accept that incoming change, accept this incoming change.
I'm gonna save in the c s s file.
We have that magenta color and now I refresh
and we see goodbye world.
Okay, great.
And I could add and commit that if I wanted to
I could add both of those files, get commit
let's just say, you know, merge stashed changes
Or let's say apply.
So we have to make a commit because there was a conflict.
But if I go back to the other branch, what was it called?
I can't remember now.
It's to git branch, yes.
Goodbye. If I go back to goodbye.
So git switch, goodbye.
Our CS file is empty and we're back to hello.
Right? We didn't make a commit with that stuff
but I still have those changes stashed away
because I didn't use pop, git stash, pop, pops those changes
off of the stash, they're gone and they're applied.
But if I use git stash apply
it's still there so I can apply it again.
Git stash apply.
And there we are.
We now have those changes back in here.
App c s s has magenta
and now we have goodbye and goodbye world
and I'll refresh the webpage and there it is.
So I know it's not the most exciting thing ever
but that is using apply instead of pop.
This can come in handy if you need to apply changes
across multiple branches, compare that to pop git stash pop
which removes the changes from the stash.
Apply, keeps them in there, but also applies them.

--- Working With Multiple Stashes ---

-: So far with git stash, we've put one thing
in the stash and then popped it out, right?
One set of changes and then we popped or applied it,
but we can actually stash again and again.
We can have multiple stashes in our stack of stashes,
and they will be kept in the order that we added them in.
I've gotta be honest though,
I don't do this really, at least not frequently.
Like I said, 99 or 90 something percent of the time,
I'm just doing git stash and git stash pop.
But I'm being comprehensive, or at least attempting to.
So I'll show this very quickly.
Well, relatively quickly, I'm going to make a new branch.
So I am on this magenta, no, I'm on the goodbye branch.
We'll just add those changes and commit now, commit dash m.
Let's just do change to goodbye.
That's pretty much what we did.
Okay, so now I'm gonna make a new branch from here.
So git switch dash c,
and I'm gonna just call this branch rainbow.
It's where I'm gonna demo, demo some things.
And then on this branch, I'm gonna start
by getting rid of the background color in the body.
Just have no background color.
And again, if you don't know CSS, it's totally okay,
but hopefully you can see when I wrote magenta,
we had a magenta background.
And I'm just going to leave it at that for now,
and I'm gonna commit that.
So git add app dot CSS git commit, you know,
remove background color.
Okay, so nothing in the stash right now,
and we don't have any changes that we could put in there.
But now I'm gonna make a single change.
I'm going to give the body a background color of red,
and I'm going to go in the order of a rainbow,
or at least like the standard, you know
roygbv, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, so on.
So, we've got red.
Just refresh the page.
There it is, red background, but I'm not gonna commit this.
I'm gonna add it to the stash.
So git stash, okay.
And now we're back to just an empty app dot CSS.
And if I refresh my page, we have a white background.
Now I'm gonna stash again, but this time,
I'm gonna set the body to have a background color of orange.
So that's what it looks like.
I'm not gonna add and commit.
And Git tells me, hey, you modified that file.
I'm just gonna stash it right here, get stash.
And there we are.
We have another thing on the stash, the change is reverted
in my working directory, we go back to white here.
So I'll do it one more time, body.
Okay, so now background color yellow on the body.
That's what it looks like.
And once again, we have some unstaged changes.
I'm going to stash them.
Okay, so now we have three things in the stash.
They're very simple, right?
Three sets of changes.
And the first thing was just giving the background color
of the body or making it red.
Then the second thing I stashed was orange
and the third was yellow.
So they're stored in order and we can view what we have
in the stash if needed using git stash list.
So if I head back over here, git stash list, there they are.
We have, well actually, we have four things
in the stash because when I used apply earlier,
in the previous video when I demonstrated how apply works,
I never actually popped that set of changes off the stash.
So we still have that here,
but we have three that we just added.
Now notice, it gives us, it says work
in progress on branch rainbow in our case.
And then it gives us the most recent commit,
where we were working when we made that stash.
Remove background color.
So this doesn't really help us in any way, but to be honest,
it would be really weird to do what I just did,
to make three, or to stash, three sets
of changes on the same branch, one after another.
You would probably just make those changes
and stash them, or work on a different branch, right?
You, you wouldn't do what I just did,
but I was just demonstrating it.
So, if I do git stash pop, for example,
we will be popping this off and applying those changes.
So I, maybe I don't want that.
If I want red, which is this one here,
this was the first one that we added
from this branch, rainbow.
I actually can reference particular stashes
by using the little stash id.
So it looks like this, git stash,
and then I can do apply
and then reference the particular stash.
Stash at two inside of those curly braces.
So I'll do stash at two right here.
That should be our red background color.
And if you're confused by this, honestly,
I just say let it go.
It's okay.
Just focus on git stash and git stash pop.
But, here we are, type git status.
We don't have any background color here,
but, if I do git stash apply,
and then that stash at two in curly braces, okay,
we now have modified app CSS, and there it is, it's red.
Refresh the page, we see red.
Now if instead I applied a different stash,
can go back, git stash list.
If we look at this one here, stash one,
that's going to be the orange background color.
And if I try to apply that one right now, git stash one,
we run into a conflict, right?
There's a problem because it's set to red right now
and that is unstaged.
So I either need to get rid of that change,
which I could do, I could just delete the whole thing,
type git status and we're back to where we were before
and now I can apply this other stash, right.
And it changes to orange, okay.
And really, that's enough of, of showing you this.
The point is that we can have multiple things in the stash
at once.
In my experience, I pretty much rarely, I won't say never,
but very rarely do that.
I'm sure in some, some developers' workflows,
it's a really important feature.
But just for me, and I asked a couple friends just to see
if I was crazy, and according to them,
I'm not that crazy, but in my experience,
I just use git stash and git stash pop.
Put one thing in there and remove it.
Anyway, we can view all those stashes that we have,
git stash list.
We can reference them if we want to apply a particular one,
using I don't know what this is actually called.
I call it a stash id, but just, you know, stash, an index,
a stash reference, and then we can apply any of them.
And then lastly,
I'll show you in the next video how to delete, clear, drop,
whatever you wanna call it.
How to get rid of things in the stash if we want
to clear it out.
That's coming up.

--- Dropping & Clearing The Stash ---

Instructor: Okay, so the last thing I'll show you
is how to drop stashes,
how to remove them.
And all we do is use "git stash drop"
and then a stash identifier, index, whatever this is called.
Now, this is something you only need to do
if you're not using pop, for example.
Pop just removes it from the stash anyway.
It removes the most recent thing in the stash
and applies it.
So if you aren't using pop,
and you're instead applying particular stashes
or you're using just "apply" to apply the most recent,
you're not clearing out the stash at any point.
So, we can drop particular things,
particular entries in the stash with this syntax.
Okay, so back to our little website, a beautiful webpage.
I'm on the rainbow branch,
and I'm gonna undo this.
Let's go ahead and just refresh there.
Okay, git status,
git stash list.
And let's take this last one here and apply it.
So, this should give us that yellow background color,
git stash, apply with that id.
And we're back to yellow.
I refresh, we have yellow.
Okay, so now I want to get rid of that stash.
I don't need it stashed away anymore.
So git stash list.
There it is.
So I can remove it with git stash drop
and then paste that, and it says it dropped it.
If we look at our stash list again,
now we only have those three entries instead of four.
And then if we just wanna completely empty out the stash,
we have a different command, git stash clear,
and this will just clear everything out of there.
So I'll do that.
Git stash clear, git stash list.
Nothing in there.
It's not showing me a single thing.
Okay, so quick video on dropping and clearing the stash.
And I guess I'll end on this note.
I've said this a million times in this section,
but it bears repeating.
Personally, I use git stash and git stash pop.
Most of the time I'm doing anything with git stash.
So please don't freak out too much about,
you know, some of the other things we've seen,
working with multiple things in the stash
and applying them and managing them.
I just don't really do that, so I wouldn't stress about it.
Okay, so that's the basics of stashing.

--- Stashing Exercise ---

Instructor: Alright, so it's time
for a quick exercise that just tests your ability
to work with the git Stash command,
and just in the most basic way.
So we talked a lot or we talked about
quite a few different variants of git stash.
This exercise is really just the basics.
Can you put something in it and take something out?
Okay?
So the premise here is that you're keeping a diary,
and you're working in an office
and your boss walks by and you need to
quickly stash some changes before your boss sees them.
So as always, you can find the link to this,
this document as a resource.
With this video, I recommend
that you stop the video and try this on your own.
Basically, you'll make a new repo, make a file called diary,
and then inside of it write a sentence
that says, "I love my boss".
Save, add, and commit and that will be on the master branch.
But then you make a new branch called "the truth"
and you work on that branch.
You switch to it and you erase the contents of the file,
and you replace it with all of this, and you save the file.
And just before you're able to add and commit,
your boss walks towards you.
You see them walking towards you,
so you quickly switch over to the master branch.
So that tells you, switch to master
without adding and committing.
So we switch over and oh no,
the diary file still contains our truthful confession.
Quickly stash the changes before your boss sees.
So now the diary file should go back to just saying,
"I love my boss".
And the boss walks by.
We add some more lies,
just more lines that say I love my boss.
Then we add and commit those changes on the master branch.
Then our boss leaves.
So we go back to the truth branch, we retrieve the changes
from the stash, all of this.
And then we add and commit on the truth branch
and we're done.
Okay, very simple.
So let's try it.
I recommend you do it on your own as always, but here we go.
I'll do it.
So we'll make a new repo in some folder.
LS, let's make a folder called Stash-Diary.
We'll cd into that.
Make sure we're not in a repo.
I'll git init and then I'm gonna make
the diary.txt file and then I'll open that.
Okay, so here's the file and I'm just gonna put
I love my boss, I think is what it was.
Yeah, you don't have to get it exactly right.
And then we're going to add and commit.
So add that diary file and then just a simple commit,
add diary file.
Okay, so then we create a new branch called the truth.
We're gonna switch over to that.
So git switch -c, the -truth.
So I'm now on that branch, right?
And I'm going to write the truth in this file.
I hate my boss.
And then I'll duplicate that four times or so.
It doesn't matter.
As long as we have some number of some lines in there
some changes.
And it's pretty obvious to see I have changed that.
So I hate my boss, I hate my boss, I hate my boss.
Okay.
Oh, and just as a quick quiz,
what is the command I could run to see what I've changed?
Since we made this branch, right since the last commit.
Well, there's a couple, but I could just do git diff HEAD.
And there we are.
We see that I removed this line
and I added these lines in.
Okay, so the next step I'm about to add and commit
but oh no, my boss is walking towards us.
Shoot, I gotta switch over to the master branch.
Git switch back to master.
Oh no, my changes came with me.
This is a nightmare.
My boss is about to see.
Quickly, stash the changes.
So I can do git stash,
or git stash save.
They're the same thing, it's just a shortcut.
(Instructors gasps)
Now my boss walks by and as they're walking by
I just continue to write some more lies.
I love my boss, I love my boss.
I save, I'm even gonna add and commit these changes.
Git add diary, git commit -m, add more lies.
All right, so I'm now ready to switch back over
because my boss has left the room.
I can go back to the truth branch.
Git switch the-truth, and we don't see my work, right?
We don't see the, I hate my boss times five of course
because it's in the stash.
So how do I apply those changes?
Well, I could do git stash apply
but I'm just gonna pop off the stash.
As I talked about in the section
or the videos prior to this.
I usually just use git stash and git stash pop.
So git stash pop will then retrieve the changes,
right, that I stashed away.
And now I can keep working or I can add and commit.
I'll just add and commit.
Git commit -m, add the truth, and we're done.
All right, so I can switch back to master.
Switch to the truth.
It's not part of the exercise
but we just stashed something in the The stash.
Nothing crazy.
I hope you're able to get through that
and I hope you don't actually hate your boss.
Okay, bye.

--- Checking Out Old Commits ---

Instructor: All right, so the first of many
different commands we're going to see in this section
is actually one we've seen before, git checkout.
So when we learned how to first switch branches,
I used git switch, that's what I showed you.
It's the newer way of doing things.
But the longstanding way of switching branches
is using git checkout, but also,
git checkout does a lot of other things.
So in this video, I'm gonna show you one
of those other things.
As a reminder, a lot of people think
the git checkout command does too much
which is why new commands were added
including git switch and git restore
which we'll talk about later on in this section.
Okay, so if we use git checkout,
but rather than checking out a branch,
we instead checkout a particular commit hash
like I've done here.
Remember, we can view these commit hashes using git log.
If we run this command,
git checkout and then a commit hash,
something quite peculiar happens.
We're going to see this message
that sounds very bad, detached HEAD.
You are in detached HEAD state.
You can look around,
make experimental changes and commit them
and you can discard any commits you make
in the state without impacting any branches
by switching back to a branch.
Okay, so first of all,
that sounds horrible, detached HEAD.
It's not a bad thing.
We'll talk about what exactly it means.
But first, I wanna demonstrate this.
So I'm going back to our first little repo,
"The Great Gatsby" novel that I'm writing,
my first novel.
If you recall, we just have a single branch.
I'm on master, so that's all that we have.
And we have a bunch of commits.
Let me do one line here.
So we started with an outline
and then I did chapter one
and then I split chapter one into two,
chapter one and chapter two.
Then I renamed a character,
character of Gatsby to Catsby,
and then I added a mood board
and I did a bunch of other stuff.
Well, let's say, I wanna go back in time to when,
I don't know, what would a good place be?
Maybe when I renamed Gatsby to Catsby.
So I want to undo that or at least I wanna see
what things looked like back then.
Right now, in my files,
there is no Gatsby, it's Catsby here.
If I look at the character's file,
where are you?
Here we are.
Jay Catsby, chapter one.
If I did a search,
we would find Catsby in here and not Gatsby.
There we are.
All right, so if I wanna undo that,
I wanna go back in time.
I can take this commit hash.
This is actually the abbreviated version.
It's the first seven digits
for each one of these commits
and that's really all that Git needs.
But I could also provide the entire thing
if I just did git log
and didn't do the abbreviated versions.
So I could scroll down
and find this commit hash here
or just provide the first seven,
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven.
Okay, so I'm gonna copy that.
And now, just gonna make sure
I don't have any changes on here, okay, good.
I'm gonna go check out that commit hash,
git checkout, this old commit,
and this is where I see that message.
You are in detached HEAD state.
You can look around, blah blah blah.
I already read that.
So let me show you a couple of things.
First of all, if I type git log,
let me do one line.
We only have what?
Five commits that are showing up right now
because I have jumped back in time.
I've traveled back to this commit.
I don't know how many commits ago it was,
six, seven, eight commits ago
and there's only five commits at that point.
This is where we are.
Also, if I take a look at the files,
well, I'm an idiot because I went back
to the commit where we renamed to Catsby.
I wanted to go back to the one
before we were still Gatsby.
So we see, Catsby is still everywhere.
Okay, well, let's pick the commit before.
So before we rename Gatsby to Catsby,
I can go to this commit 4f1b
and do the same thing.
Git checkout that commit.
And I'm still in this detached HEAD state.
If I type git status, you can see HEAD detached.
And if I take a look now, Gatsby,
Gatsby is all that we see.
Do I have another example?
Here's Gatsby, we don't have Catsby at all.
If I type git log,
now, we only have four commits, okay?
So I've jumped back in time.
But don't fear, I haven't lost all of the other work
that I had on the master branch.
So what is this detached HEAD?
Well, as we've learned earlier,
but I'm just gonna review.
Normally, HEAD points to a particular branch reference.
Are you on master?
Are you on bugfix or new feature?
Whatever branch you're on,
HEAD points to the branch reference,
and then the branch reference itself
points to the tip of a branch,
the most recent commit on a branch.
So if I'm on the master branch,
HEAD points to master,
and master points to some commit.
If I make a new commit,
master updates to point to the new commit,
but HEAD still points at master, right?
HEAD is still just pointing at that branch.
If I switch branches, I go to bugfix.
HEAD switches to bug fix,
but HEAD is still pointing to a branch.
And that's really the main takeaway so far.
HEAD usually refers to a particular branch reference.
It does not refer to a commit.
HEAD is not pointing at this commit
or this commit or that commit,
HEAD is referring to the branch that we're on
and the branch reference points to a commit.
So now, back to this detached HEAD thing.
Look at all those detached HEADS.
I manually detached those just for this slide.
Anyway, now, when we check out an earlier commit,
what we're doing is actually changing HEAD
to refer to a commit.
So in this case, I'm just going back one commit.
HEAD points directly at that commit,
not at a branch reference.
So it's kind of a weird state.
It is not normal, it's not bad.
But we can't always do the same things
that we could do if we were on a branch.
So we're not on a branch.
We're just floating around.
We're a detached HEAD.
So I can just quickly show you
what this looks like.
If you recall, I actually showed that we can look
at HEAD instead of this .git directory
which is where all the git stuff is stored.
We can look at head and earlier,
when I first showed this a couple sections ago,
we saw something like, I think refs/heads/master
or oldies or whatever branch we were on.
But right now, I'm in detached HEAD
and HEAD is actually referring to a commit,
the particular commit that I'm on,
right, this commit.
And that's abnormal.
We're used to it pointing to an actual branch reference.
Anyway, we are in detached HEAD at this point.
In the next video,
I'm gonna talk about what we can do here
and why this could be useful, okay?
So right now, we've gone back in time,
but we're kind of just floating around some old commit.
Next up, I'll talk about how we can branch off
from here or undo things.
So that's coming up.

--- Re-Attaching Our Detached HEAD! ---

Instructor: So now let's talk about what we do
or what we can do in this detached HEAD state.
So in my repo, I've gone back to what is this commit again?
4f1, split chapter one into two pieces,
I'll also show you in GitKraken.
This is where I went back to.
It shows me HEAD is pointing at this one commit.
Master branch is still all the way up here,
that branch reference pointing over here,
begin chapter three.
There's like what?
Eight commits or so in the meantime or in between.
But I am now just looking at this split chapter one
into two pieces commit.
Okay, so one thing that I can do is just poke around,
examine the contents of the old commit, view the files,
maybe copy something and then bring it with me somewhere.
We can see that all my files have been updated
to reflect the fact that we're all the way back here.
So I can see Gatsby everywhere.
I don't see chapter three.
There's work that is missing because I've gone back in time.
So if that's all I wanted to do, great.
Now if I want to go back to where I was,
I wanna go back to master,
all I need to do is switch to a branch.
So if I have a detached HEAD,
I can switch back to master,
Git switch master or Git checkout master,
and we're reattached.
So I can show that.
We've got only one branch in this repo,
so master, I'll just switch back.
So right now I'm in detached HEAD.
Now if I do switch master, Git switch master,
you can see I'm not in detached HEAD.
We're back where master is, right?
HEAD points to master.
If I type Git log,
we can see we have all those commits again,
and HEAD is pointing to that master branch reference.
So nothing changed, we didn't mess up anything.
We simply went back as an observer,
we took a look at what happened all those commits ago,
we time traveled back and then time traveled forward.
But if I wanted to go back,
let's say to where I finished chapter one,
and then I wanted to split off
and try a new version of chapter two and chapter three,
basically I want to get rid of all of this work.
I'm not gonna delete all of that work,
but I'm gonna try making a new branch
that doesn't include any of this.
So I'll go back in time maybe to this commit right here,
whatever this hash is, and then I will branch off
and do some stuff on that new branch.
So I'll make a branch based upon this position,
this particular commit.
So I won't lose all this stuff,
I'm just gonna make a new branch without it.
Okay?
So that's the third option, really I guess,
for what we can do here,
create a new branch and switch to it.
Now I can make, I can save changes, I can make commits,
because HEAD will now be attached to a new branch.
So let's go back, let's pick one of those commits.
Let's go to when I finished chapter one
before we had chapter two.
So I'm gonna copy that commit hash,
make sure I don't have any un-staged changes
and nothing to commit.
Great.
And I'll check out that old commit from a long time ago.
Once again, detached HEAD, we can see where I am.
I'm all the way back here.
Now what I'm gonna do is make a new branch.
So just like I make any other branch,
I mean I can make it first, Git branch blah,
and then switch to it or just do it in one go.
What should I call this branch?
Let's call it, sure,
chapter two redo, like that, okay?
So I made a new branch and I switched to it
and just like anytime we make a branch,
that branch is based upon HEAD.
And at that point in time, HEAD was this commit.
So now we have a new branch here, chapter two redo,
and I'm reattached,
HEAD is pointing to an actual branch reference.
We're not in detached HEAD.
I typed Git status
and we can start doing more work.
So my files still look like they did
when I was in detached HEAD, but now I am reattached.
So I could make my own version of chapter two, right?
Chapter two dot TXT,
and just put some random stuff in here.
Here's my chapter two.
Maybe I want to, ah, we'll just leave it at that I guess.
Maybe I'll delete all of chapter one.
I'll empty that out.
Whatever I do, Git status, I'll add those changes.
I'm on this branch, chapter two redo,
and I'll do something like start
second stab at chapter two.
So now I have this new commit
and it only exists on my chapter two redo branch.
So this branch has the first three commits
from master and then a whole new one where I branched off
and tried a completely different version of chapter two.
I don't have this history, but it's still there
and I could just switch back to master, right?
So this is what I'm looking at here.
Chapter one is empty.
Chapter two is almost empty.
There is no chapter three, but I can switch back,
Git switch master at any point,
and all that stuff is restored.
I've gone back to where we were before.
Okay, so that is pretty much it
for checking out previous commits,
Git checkout and then a commit hash will take us back
but we'll be in detached HEAD.
We can poke around, we can switch back,
go back to master or whatever branch we want
or we can create a new branch
based upon the particular commit
we've time traveled back to, okay?

--- Referencing Commits Relative to HEAD ---

Instructor: Okay, so we saw
that we can check out a particular commit
using a commit hash,
but there's another way in git
that we can reference other commits.
We can reference things based upon HEAD.
The syntax is kind of, it's a little weird,
but it looks like this:
HEAD, and then a tilde,
which is usually above the tab key
and then a number.
So HEAD, tilde one, is actually going to refer
to whatever commit comes before HEAD.
Think of it as HEAD minus one.
HEAD tilde two,
it's whatever comes two commits before HEAD,
the grandparent commit.
So if this is where HEAD is,
if I check out HEAD tilde one,
it's the previous commit.
HEAD tilde two, it's this commit, three is this one.
So I don't use this all that often,
but sometimes, if you have a reason to reference
what you did in the last commit
and you don't want to go look up that commit hash,
you can still very easily reference it with HEAD tilde one.
So I'll show that very quickly.
On our master branch,
let's just take a look.
So we've got begin chapter three,
that's where we are right now.
If I just wanna go back one commit,
I could copy this, right?
And then check that out
or, I can do this.
Git checkout HEAD tilde one, not 21, just one.
And once again we're back to detached HEAD,
because we checked out a particular commit.
This is just a different way to reference that commit,
we just said the previous commit,
but it's still a commit.
We're not on a branch.
And we see that here:
HEAD is now pointing to this commit:
add headings to all files.
So before, HEAD was pointing to master,
which is still pointing to this commit.
Now HEAD is one before
and what we see in our file,
we probably won't notice a whole lot,
but there's no chapter three.
That is the difference.
Chapter one and chapter two are here,
but chapter three was the next commit.
It still exists on master of course.
So from here, if I wanna go back one commit again,
I can just do the same command:
get checkout HEAD minus, or tilde, one;
because HEAD is now right here,
I can still reference one commit prior.
Okay, and now we go back one, one further.
So there we are, HEAD is now here.
And we can see,
we don't have those headings in my files anymore.
Chapter two, chapter one,
they used to have a heading up top.
And that's kind of all I want to show.
Of course, I'll switch back to master now.
Git switch master.
And now we have those headings back
and we have chapter three back.
So we're back up to date with the master branch reference.
One other thing that we can do,
to get back to the branch we were on.
So, lemme try and explain that in a better way.
If I check out some commit,
I go into detached HEAD.
Right now I'm on master, right?
So if I check out HEAD tilde, I don't know.
Let's go way back, like eight.
We're way back here.
This commit here.
Okay, now if I wanna go back to where I was,
I wanna leave detached HEAD.
One option is to just remember
what branch I was on, Master,
and go back to Master, git switch Master.
The other option is git switch with a dash
and that will just take me back
to whatever branch I was on last.
And that happens to be master,
but I could show a different example,
we have this other branch,
I already forgot the name.
What is it?
Chapter two, redo.
If we check that out or switch to it, either one,
okay, that's where I was.
Now I'm gonna go back, git checkout HEAD,
let's do tilde one.
Okay, so I'm on this branch.
I'm gonna go back one commit
and now I just wanna leave detached HEAD.
I don't remember what branch I was on,
or I'm just lazy.
I do git switch dash
and it takes me back to where I left off.
Okay, that's all I wanted to show.

--- Discarding Changes With Git Checkout ---

Instructor: Okay, so onto another use
for the checkout command.
We can use git checkout to discard changes from a file
basically to revert back
to whenever we previously committed.
So I'm going to demonstrate this
in the next couple of commands.
There's restore is another command on a very, very boring
stupid repository that will make it very
clear how this works.
So I'm gonna just make, I already have a repo actually
or a new folder called undoing stuff.
It's not a repo.
I'm going to init and then I'm gonna make two files.
And again, very silly one will be called, how about cat.txt
and the other will be dog.txt.
Okay, so two files and then I'm gonna add my first commit.
Git status, okay, get commit, add cat and dog files.
Then in both of them, gonna open them up over here,
I'm just gonna write first commit and make a commit.
And then I'm gonna do second commit and make a commit.
Basically I have a record in two files.
Every commit I make, I'm just gonna say
first commit, second commit, third commit, and so on.
And this will make it easy for me to demonstrate
when I go back in time, oh we're back to first commit,
or second, or third.
So let's do that here.
Get status, get add dot, get commit first commit.
Technically it's our second
but I'll call it first commit
and then I'll do the same thing.
Second, commit.
Okay.
Git dot git commit dash m second commit.
And I'll do it one more time.
Third commit.
Git add dot get commit dash m third commit.
Okay, very boring, like I said, and trivial stupid.
But we have two files, both of them have three lines.
We added one line at a time in a commit.
Now what I wanna show is that we can use git checkout
with HEAD and then a file name or multiple file names
to revert changes or to discard changes that we've
made back to whenever we last committed.
So let's say that, you know, I'm working
and I accidentally type a bunch of stuff in here and I save
and type a bunch of stuff in this file too and I save.
And of course over here git status
we see, oh, I've modified those two files,
if I don't want to commit that, if that's a mistake
one option is just to manually delete that, right?
Delete that, delete this, that's fine.
But if we have a ton of files where I've done work
and I just want to like get rid of all the changes
I've done, I can do it using git checkout HEAD.
So again, silly, but this is a demonstration of it.
So I have this extra stuff in both of them.
The last commit I made stopped right there and right here.
So if I do git checkout HEAD
and then a file name, how about dog, I'm telling git
take whatever the contents of dog we're at HEAD, right
'cause HEAD is different from where I am right now.
HEAD is pointing at that last commit
well it's pointing at master, which is pointing
at the last commit on the master branch.
So HEAD is still referencing this
and this new stuff is gonna go away.
And there it's gone.
Now Cat.txt still has that stuff
but if I do get checkout HEAD
and then Cat.txt, that's gone as well, right?
Okay.
So that's one way of doing it.
Another option is to use the shorter version
git checkout dash, dash instead of typing HEAD
and then the file or files we want to revert back to HEAD.
So if I do a bunch of work again
in this file and in dog, I could even get rid of that,
get rid of that, just screw everything up
and then I'm realize, oh crap, this is a disaster.
I wanna undo those changes but I can't.
Or maybe I mean I could just do Command Z,
but let's say I can't,
over here I could do git checkout HEAD
or just git checkout dash dash cat.
I'll do both of them and dog.
And we're back to where we were at HEAD
where HEAD is still referring to this commit.
HEAD is always, unless we switch branches
it's going to point at this master branch
and that master branch doesn't move
until we make a new commit.
Git log, and this is where HEAD still is.
All right, so to recap that git checkout HEAD
and then a file name or multiple file names
we'll reset those files contents back to whatever it looked
like in your last commit or when you last committed,
AKA, where HEAD is still referencing.
And then there's a shorter version, git checkout dash dash
does the same thing.
What's extra confusing though, or kind of
annoying to have to teach you is that there's
a whole new command that also does the same thing and more.
And that's what we're gonna learn in the next video.
It's called git restore.

--- Un-Modifying With Git Restore ---

Instructor: All right, so now we're onto a new command,
git restore,
and this is actually a new command to git.
It's pretty new, it's not all that well-known,
so there's a lot of existing tutorials and videos
and courses that don't mention it at all.
Git restore takes some of the burden away from git checkout.
It does- remember how I've said this a couple times,
git checkout does a lot of things,
and git switch alongside git restore,
they both were introduced to try and take away
some of that stuff from git checkout.
So, git checkout still does all that stuff,
but now, we have standalone commands git switch,
to switch branches,
and git restore, that helps with undoing operations.
As you've seen already,
we can use checkout to switch branches,
we can use checkout to checkout earlier commits.
We can use checkout, as we just saw in the previous video,
to undo or discard changes.
So, it's kind of crazy, but restore is the new command.
It sometimes, honestly, feels a bit clunky to me,
but I'm gonna show it to you now.
So, the first thing we can do with git restore
is discard changes that we've made in a repository
since the last commit.
Basically, the same thing I showed you in the last video.
So, if I make some changes in my file, let's say dog,
I add a bunch of stuff again.
I delete all of this, right?
I write, like, whatever that is, "-DOGGGG!!"
Okay, I make a bunch of changes.
I haven't added or committed them.
I type git status, right?
I've modified dog and I realize, "Ah, you know what?
I don't want any of that."
I can type git restore and then dog.txt.
I don't even have to reference head or anything like that.
Just git restore and a file name
and it is going to restore my file, dog,
back to what it looked like at head,
where head currently is, at the last commit that we've made.
So, here we go.
And, there we are, dog.txt back to where it was.
So, this is the same as what we did earlier,
git checkout head dog.txt, it's just a little bit simpler.
And then, the other thing we can do
is actually reference a particular commit and go back.
So, I could restore the contents of my dog file
or my cat file or whatever I want to what it looked like
two commits ago.
So, I'll show you that.
It's a little- this is why I said it's kind of clunky.
We have to use the --source option.
So, git restore and then we specify a source.
The default source is just head, as we saw,
but we can specify a different source using --source
and then, either a commit hash or this-
what do you call this syntax?
Head~1 or head~2 and so on.
So, let's try this out.
It doesn't matter if I have stuff in here or not,
but let's say I screw it up a lot
and I want to restore the dog file back to-
I don't know, if this is head~1,
let's go all the way back to here.
I want to restore it to this commit.
So, this would be head~2.
This is head. Back one, back two.
So, I can do git restore --source head~2
and then the file name.
And, whatever is in here, I have unstaged changes,
I'm going to lose them,
which I don't think I made a big enough deal about earlier.
But, you know, those changes are gone.
If I haven't added or committed those changes,
if I lose those changes, git has no record of them.
So, only use this if you are comfortable truly going back
and getting rid of uncommitted changes that you have
at the moment.
All right? So, here we go.
Restore the contents of dog.txt to what it looked like
two commits prior to head.
And, there we are. First commit.
Now, that doesn't move us, right?
If we type git status, we're still on master.
If I type git log, we're still here on the last commit,
the tip of the master branch.
So, we haven't gone back in time,
we haven't, like, you know, time-traveled,
no detached head or anything.
But, dog.txt has been modified.
So, if I don't want that, if I want to go back to head
on that file, I can still do git restore dog.txt
and now, it goes back to the most recent commit.
So, we still lost-
you know, if we have a bunch of other stuff,
that's gonna be gone unless I add and commit that,
but I can restore back-
one more time, let's go git restore
and then, I'll do it to both files.
So, --source, head, and then I believe it's ~3.
And then, I'll do cat and dog.
Op, nope, I guess there is no head~3, it is-
oh yeah, it's head~2.
Well, here we are, first commit.
First commit on both of them.
And then, if I really didn't want to do that,
or I want to- let's say I want to take cat back
to where head is right now.
Git restore cat
and there, cat goes back to where head is.
Dog is still back two commits prior.
Okay, so, again, this is a very silly example,
but I wanted to do something obvious where we knew
this came from the first commit, this came from second,
this came from third, and this-
you know, having two files makes it easier to demonstrate.
So, there we are.
That is using git restore. At least, one use of it.
In the next video, I'll show you another use of git restore,
but, so far, what we've seen is that,
basically, this is an another way of doing
what we've already seen how to do with git checkout.
Where with git checkout we have to specify head
and then a file name,
and checkout does a million other things,
so it's confusing,
restore is a lot more narrowly focused.
It does, really, well, I guess two things,
but, so far, we've seen one.
And, by default, it will restore based upon head,
we don't have to provide that.
Or, we can provide a source with --source
and then specify a commit hash or use this syntax. Okay.

--- Un-Staging Changes With Git Restore ---

-: So the second use for git restore is
to unstage files that we currently stage.
So if we made a mistake, we stage something
it's going to be included in the next commit
and then we decide, ah, we really don't want that.
We can un stage it using git restore
and then dash dash staged in a file name.
So I'll demonstrate this, let's restore back to head.
So we'll just do get restore.
Whoops, get restore our files, cat and dog.
We'll go back to first, second, and third in both of them.
So now I'm gonna make a new commit in here.
Fourth commit.
So I'll just put that in both of them.
And for the sake of this example
I'm gonna make a file, I'll call it secrets dot txt.
And in here I'll put something like, I don't know
A P i key equals some a P i key
and then credit card number equals and then some fake.
I don't even, I don't think that's the right number
of digits, but let's say that's your credit card number.
Okay, then I forget about this file
and I'm ready to make my next commit.
So I head over here and I type git add dot
and then I have a horrible sinking feeling.
I type get status.
I realized, shoot, I did not want to stage my secrets file.
I don't wanna include that.
Now ideally I would have a get ignore
and it would include that file
but still there are times if you've done a lot
of work and you need to split your changes
up into a couple of commits, you might add a file
that you don't wanna stage, you might wanna remove it.
That's what we're doing here.
I want these two to be included, right?
I want fourth commit.
Fourth commit.
I want that to be included, but I want to unstage this.
So to do that, git restore dash
dash staged and then the file name.
So here we go.
Git restore, dash, dash staged secrets, not stages.
Staged.
Okay, that gets status
and now it's not being tracked, right?
Git doesn't really care about this file anymore.
It's at least not staged to be included in the commit
but the file has not been changed.
So we didn't like delete it or reset anything in it.
It's just not staged for the next commit.
So now I can make my commit fourth commit get status.
Still it was not included and it's still there, you know
just waiting for us to stage it or ideally to ignore it.
So that's kind of confusing, right?
The two purposes for git restore one is to unmodify a file
or files and the other is to un stage file or files.
Fortunately, if you use git status, Git will tell you
at any point it reminds you how to do both of them.
So for example, if I stage a change
which right now I don't have anything
but if I do stage that change, get add secrets dot txt
and I type get status, it tells me right here
this is going to be committed.
If you don't want that use git restore dash
dash staged and then a file name to unstage.
'cause honestly I struggled to remember this
I don't have to do it all that often.
Thankfully git status tells us.
So I mean we could just copy that.
Great. And then the same thing, if I change one of my files
I put some stuff in there, I delete it, great.
Git status, it says hey, you modified that file.
And it's also mentioned to discard the changes
in the working directory.
Use git restore and then the file name.
So I'll do that, get restore cat dot txt
and we're back to where we were.
So you don't have to remember it at all times.
You can just use git status it will remind you what to use.
It does not show you in git status though
that you have this option, right?
To specify a different source.
Not as common.
But this does allow you to reset the contents
of a file to what it looked like 10 commits ago if needed.
So you can use that dash, dash source
it defaults to head as we've seen.
Okay, so that's git restore.

--- Undoing Commits With Git Reset ---

Instructor: So we just saw git restore.
Now we're moving on to a similar sounding command,
which is git reset.
The git reset command will reset a repository
back to some particular commit.
So if we're working on, let's say the master branch
and then I realized that the last three commits
that I've made we're not supposed to be
on the master branch.
I screwed that up and I wanted to put them
on a different branch and I want to remove them from master.
I can do that.
I undo those commits using git reset.
And there's two flavors, two varieties I'll show you.
There's regular reset and then a hard reset.
And we're gonna start with I guess
the plain old regular reset.
I don't know if anyone calls it that
but that's what I'll call it, plain reset.
It looks like this:
git reset and then a commit hash.
And this will reset our repository
back to whatever that commit hash is.
Let me demonstrate this with our really boring cat, dog.
First, second, third, fourth commit.
I'm gonna go, let's delete this secrets file
just to make our lives easier.
Okay, so it's gone.
Let's make a mistake or do something in here
that we just want to undo.
Let's say it's that.
And then this one over here I delete that,
and then I'm gonna save this
and then I'm gonna make a commit accidentally,
which I'm doing on purpose
but we'll pretend I don't actually want this commit.
git commit -m mistake commit.
Okay, so here's what we have now.
First, second, third, fourth, and then mistake commit.
And you can see, you know, I added those two lines
and then I deleted this in the dog file.
Anyway, we've screwed it up.
And maybe I do one more commit,
that's even a a further mistake.
Why don't I, I don't know, add a happy face.
Same thing over here.
git add .
git commit -m.
Another mistake or another bad commit.
Okay, so now I can use the git reset command.
If I find a commit, I want to go back to,
so git log, let's just do one line.
If I want to go back to fourth commit
I can reference this particular commit hash,
or this is the first seven digits.
Copy that.
And then git reset and that hash just like this.
And what happened?
Well, you might think those changes are gone
but they're actually not.
Those changes are still here.
Doesn't that seem like they should be reset?
No, because all that we did was perform a basic
or a plain reset and that removed the commits
but the changes are still in our working directory.
So I can get rid of those changes
and I can, you know, undo stuff in my local files.
But all that we did right now was tell Git
to get rid of some commits.
Go back to this last commit that, what was it, 4661.
So in Gits mind, that's where the history stops.
There is no commit after that, right?
git log, just do one line again.
That's the last commit it has.
But it kept those changes in our working directory.
So here's a diagram to show that.
Let's say we make a commit and we realize,
ah, we don't want that commit.
So to undo it, if we use git reset
and a commit hash to go back to this one,
those changes are still in our working directory.
We don't lose the changes, we lose the commits.
However many commits there were between head,
all the way back to this commit.
It just happened to be one.
So in our case, we undid two commits over here, right?
There were two commits, one was mistake
and the second was called bad commit I think.
But we still have the changes.
This can be useful
if you make some commits on the wrong branch.
You wanna keep that work but move it to another branch.
So we've reset, right?
We lost those commits on the master branch
but now I could take these changes with me
and make a new branch, git switch,
switch -c, you know, I dunno, badstuff.
And on here I can add and commit those changes.
git add .
git commit, add bad stuff.
I dunno, it's stupid.
So now I have this branch that I've made that has, you know,
these mistakes, the stuff that I presumably don't want.
And now I can go back to master
and things are how we want them to be on master.
So I took those changes with me over to the new branch.
I added and committed them on the new branch
and then went back to master without those changes.
Okay, so hopefully that was clear.
Reset, git reset with a commit hash
removes the commits, but it does not remove the changes
from your working directory.
So you don't lose that work, you lose the commits.
The alternative is a hard reset, which is the same command
but with --hard.
And when we do a get reset --hard with a commit hash,
what will actually happen is that we lose the commits,
Git undoes the commits up to this commit hash
and the changes are removed from our working directory.
So if you like absolutely know
you want to get rid of some work
and get rid of the corresponding commits,
you can use --hard.
So you can reference the commit hash
or you can do things like, you know,
we've already seen HEAD~1 or ~2
to go back relative to where head is.
So on a diagram, if I wanted to undo this
and get rid of those changes, git reset --hard,
the commit hash that we're going back to,
those changes are gone.
So I'll do a quick demo of that.
Let's go back, I guess let's go back to master.
git switch master.
And let's make another bad change.
So we'll delete two of those and dog,
and then we'll add a bunch of stuff in cat again.
And then I'm gonna add and commit that on master.
git commit, undo this commit please.
Okay, so a regular git reset, as we saw,
would keep these changes in our directory
but it would remove commit.
I am going to undo that last commit.
So git log, let's just get the commit hash.
I'll go back, maybe I'll go back to this one, third commit.
So that means I will lose this commit and this commit,
and I'll lose the the corresponding changes
that I made in both of them.
So you wanna be careful with this, obviously. (chuckles)
You don't wanna go around just resetting hard all the time.
But I'm gonna do it here.
So git reset --hard commit hash.
One more time, this is what we're looking at.
Undo this commit please.
On master fourth, commit third, second, and so on.
Here we go.
Okay, it says head is now at this third commit.
As you can see, here's master.
We no longer have that commit on master branch.
We lost two commits on the master branch.
One line.
Now we just have three.
And in my files they both are reset back
to what they looked like.
They have the same contents that they did
when we made this third commit, we reset them back.
Okay, so that's kind of all there is for that.
I mean, I guess I should mention.
This is on a per branch basis.
So if we go back to my diagram,
we still have that fourth commit over on bad stuff.
It's not like we remove this commit from every branch ever
that knows about that commit.
It's still there.
If I go to bad stuff, git switch badstuff,
do a git log, we still see fourth commit.
Anyway, so that's reset and reset hard.

--- Reverting Commits With...Git Revert ---

Instructor: Okay, we've made it
to our last command for this section.
Another similar sounding command, git revert.
Yes, we have restore,
we have reset and now revert.
They all kind of sound like they do the same thing.
Revert actually does something very similar to reset.
It has to do with undoing changes from a commit,
but there's a very important difference.
So both revert and reset will undo changes from a commits,
but the way that they accomplish it is different
as we saw with reset.
Reset removes commits entirely
and it moves the branch pointer backwards
as if those commits never occurred,
they never existed in the first place.
Revert does something different.
It actually makes a brand new commit.
And in that new commit,
it undoes the changes from an earlier commit.
So it still helps us undo changes,
but again, it makes a new commit
that basically says undoing changes
instead of just deleting everything
and deleting history, removing commits.
That can be a problem
if you're collaborating with other people.
So at the end of this video,
I'll explain why you might use revert
or reset, vice versa.
Okay, so let me just visualize that for you.
So here is a diagram of using reset
where if we reset back two commits,
we lose those commits entirely.
They're gone.
Whereas if I use revert,
let's say that I made a mistake
on this most recent commit.
It's already been committed
and I want to remove that change or changes,
but I'm gonna revert.
I end up with a new commit
and this new commit effectively undoes this one.
So I revert a particular commit hash.
This is the commit that I'm reverting.
It doesn't go away.
It's still there in the history of my repo,
but the changes from it are gone hopefully.
So let me demonstrate this.
I'll go ahead and do a really simple example.
I'll make a bad commit.
Bad commit.
And same thing, I'll do it over in cat.
Okay, so I have two changes
and I haven't made a commit yet,
but I'll commit them now, -a -m "make a bad commit".
Okay, so I have this bad commit.
We can ignore this other branch,
but on master, I have bad commits
and I realize, you know,
I really did not mean to make that commit.
I want to get rid of it.
Well, in the last video, we saw to use reset,
but I actually don't wanna reset.
I want to keep a record of this commit,
but I want to undo the changes.
So I'm gonna use revert.
So this is the commit I want to revert.
I can use the whole, you know, head tilde one,
tilde two type syntax
or I can use a particular commit hash.
So I'm gonna do git revert
and then this commit hash right there.
Okay.
And it opens up my editor, right?
Because it generates a new commit.
Just like when we merge,
it generates a commit when we merge.
Or sometimes, if it's not a fast forward.
When there's a merge commit,
we need to provide a message.
So the default message is revert, make a bad commit.
This was the commit that we reverted, right?
That was the message.
Make a bad commit.
So it's reverting that.
Now we can put other stuff in here,
maybe an explanation why we're reverting it,
what's wrong with that commit,
but I'm just gonna close it
and let's see what happens.
If we type git log oneline,
that bad commit is still there,
but now we have this new commit
at the tip of our master branch
and that new commit reverts the one before it.
If we go back to our editor,
we can see that the two changes we made are gone.
So we still have the history preserved of that commit,
but its changes have been reverted.
So why would you do this?
What's the reasoning?
Why not just reset?
Well it has to do with collaboration
which we haven't really talked about yet,
but if you're working on a team with other people
and they're all on, you know, different machines,
you don't just all work on the same laptop.
If other people have copies of that commit,
if everyone else had that bad commit on their copy
and then I decided to get rid of it using reset,
that can cause some serious problems
because I'm undoing history
that other people have
and that can be difficult to reconcile.
So instead, what we usually would do is use revert
and that will make a new commit, as we've seen
and I can share that new commit with everyone.
Now potentially, I might make a mistake
and make a commit I want to get rid of
and I haven't shared it with anyone else yet.
Then it's fine to use reset.
Nobody ever knows.
They don't have it on their machines.
But as soon as collaborators have a commit,
if you're trying to get rid of those changes,
it's better to use revert.
So here's a demonstration.
Some diagrams, I'm working with two friends
and then here's my local version of my repository.
So I'm using just commit numbers here.
So everybody has one, two, and three, right?
One, two, three, one, two, three.
And also, my friend down here has done more work.
She has commit four that she's worked on
and I don't have that
and neither does our other friend.
Anyway, I realize I wanna get rid
of those two and three commits.
I use reset and that's a problem
'cause I've already shared that with my friends.
So it's gonna be very difficult
to reconcile their code with mine
because they already have those commits
and they've been working on top of them.
I altered the history that they already have.
So instead what I should do is revert
and make a new commit
that undoes the changes from some other commit.
And that is easy for me to share with them
and for them to reconcile.
So it's kind of a simple explanation
because we haven't talked about collaborating
and sharing code and you know,
pushing and pulling in GitHub and all of that stuff.
But that's coming up very soon.
I think we're pretty much at the end
of sort of the core git functionality
and we're gonna start talking about GitHub.
The last thing I'll say about the revert command
is that sometimes reverting a commit
can result in conflicts
where you need to go into the file,
just like any other merge conflict
and figure out what you want to keep
and what you want to get rid of.
Because like our commit we just reverted was simple,
it was just get rid of a line,
but if you're reverting something from a while back
and Git doesn't know what to keep and what not to keep,
you have to do it yourself.
You've gotta go into the files
and resolve the conflicts
and then make your commit manually.
But the end result is the same.
Okay, so that's git revert.
It will undo a commit by making a new commit
that undoes the changes.

--- Undoing Changes Exercise ---

Instructor: All right, so next up another exercise,
another opportunity to practice things.
And this section covered quite a few different commands.
They all are almost all started with an R, right?
Reset, restore, revert.
Maybe it was just those three,
but it just felt like a lot of Rs
and they all sound similar.
You'll get a chance to practice some of them here.
This exercise is going to cover
most of what we talked about.
And I did say I wouldn't expect you to just
immediately remember them all.
So please feel free to reference notes, Google things.
I mean you should always do that.
It's just part of the process.
Anyway, this exercise is another one
that is asking you to clone,
to download an existing starter repository.
So I still realize we have not really covered clone.
You've cloned at least one time in a prior exercise.
This is another example where I'm just gonna ask you
to run this command.
And just trust me, it gives you a repository
I've made for you.
We are on the verge, the cusp of learning about git clone,
but for now, just run this at the beginning.
So as always, this link is available
as a resource with this video.
I highly recommend you do the exercise.
I think it's kind of a fun one.
It's based on the lyrics to the Beatles song, "Yesterday,"
which originally Paul McCartney wrote the melody
and he sang it in his head and to friends
using scrambled eggs.
And then there's a whole bunch of lyrics he actually wrote
that are all based around scrambled eggs.
So the history of this repository, actually,
includes my fictionalized evolution of those lyrics.
So you'll see if you clone this repository,
we'll start there.
Make sure that we're not in a git repository
when we do this.
And then just paste that line. Okay?
That now makes us a folder called "yesterday-exercise."
So if we "cd" into that, the next step is to,
well we should see a file called "lyrics," okay?
And then we take a look at the commit history.
So I'll just do that with you right now.
Lemme do "oneline."
You can see that there are eight different commits
that you have already just by cloning.
So this first kind of batch here
all have to do with "Scrambled Egg" lyrics.
So I wrote, I copied and pasted,
but the original first verse, second verse,
the chorus, then I finished it.
And then this is the rework where it became
"Yesterday" instead of "Scrambled Eggs"
broken into four different commits.
Okay, so your task is, well there's a bunch of tasks.
Is to follow the instructions.
I won't just walk through them all right now before I do it.
But basically at one point I ask you to go back
and check out a commit.
You'll go into detached HEAD.
And then I ask you to go back, leave detached HEAD
and go back to the master branch.
Then I ask you to go find a particular commit
where I finish the original lyrics,
and then create a branch based upon that commit.
So that we'll have one branch called "scrambled-eggs"
that actually has all the lyrics
from that original version called "Scrambled Eggs."
And then I'm gonna ask you to make a serious change,
delete everything in the "lyrics.txt" file,
and then save that file.
But don't add and commit, just save.
And then using a git command,
so not using Command Z or undo, but using a git command,
discard those changes you made
so that you end up with the lyrics back in the file.
Then we move on to something slightly humorous
where I found some parody lyrics from this website.
I did not write these myself.
And these parody lyrics have to do with 404 pages.
So lyrics set to "Yesterday," but about 404 pages.
So I just ask you to copy some of them,
paste it into the "lyrics" file.
and add and commit on the master branch.
And then do it again.
Finish the song out, add and commit on the master branch.
After more consideration, you realize
you don't actually want those two commits
on the master branch.
So I would like for you to move them.
And the way that we'll do that is by undoing them.
So we're going to remove those two commits
from the master branch.
We've seen a command to do that.
However, I don't want you to lose those changes.
I want you to keep the changes in your working directory.
So you may need to rewatch a video to learn how to do that.
Keep the changes, undo the two commits.
Then you can create a new branch called "404,"
switch over to it, and then
those changes will come with you.
You can add and commit them on the 404 branch
and go back to the master branch
and we'll have the original lyrics.
So don't just, you know, listen to me.
Read the the exercise, read the bullet points.
I think it's pretty step-by-step.
You'll need to use most of the commands we talked about
and you may need to reference either the git docs
or the earlier videos in this section.
So I'm gonna go ahead and do it.
I really recommend you do it.
You know, it kind of takes me forever to make these things.
So I hope you get something out of them.
Anyway, here we go.
So I already cloned.
We already saw that there was eight commits in there.
I'm going to check out the very first commit.
And first, I'm just gonna open up the "lyrics" file, right?
There's one file, so I'll just open it up in VS code.
And I'll do this side-by-side.
Okay, so there is the lyrics,
the complete lyrics for, "Yesterday,"
although actually I did leave off the final verse.
Anyway, what we're going to do now is go back to the commit.
That was the very, very first commit.
So "git log," just do "oneline,"
and I'm gonna copy this hash, and then check it out.
"Git checkout" that hash.
And this is the very first commit.
We are going to immediately leave.
We saw those lyrics, right?
Those are different than what was just in that file.
We're gonna go back to the master branch.
So I can just do a "git switch" master,
or just "git switch -" to go back to where I was.
And now we see "Yesterday," the actual lyrics.
Next, go back to the commit
where the original version of the lyrics
was first completed.
This commit has the message "finish original lyrics,"
and then create a branch called "scrambled-eggs"
based on that commit.
So we'll do a "git log."
"Oneline."
Let's find, there it is: "finish original lyrics,"
copy that hash.
We're going to check it out.
This will be a detached HEAD, which is okay.
So here's the full "Scrambled Eggs" lyrics.
So we're going to make a branch based upon this.
I'm gonna switch to it.
Let me clear.
"-c," and it's called "scrambled-eggs."
So now we're no longer in detached HEAD.
We have these changes, from the earlier commit,
but I can also switch back to master.
And we don't have those changes here.
I mean we do in the history,
but currently in the working directory, we don't.
Now, delete everything in the "lyrics" file
on the master branch, and save.
Uh oh, I didn't mean to do that.
And ignoring the fact that I can just do command Z
and undo it, using a git command, discard those changes.
Okay, how do I do that?
Well, there's a couple of options.
The newer way of doing it is "git restore,"
and then a file name.
So "git restore lyrics," and there we are.
But I can also recreate that.
So I just saved again.
I can do the older version.
Whoopsies.
"Git checkout HEAD," and then the file "lyrics."
And there we go. Same thing. Okay?
Next up I get a creative itch.
I'm on the master branch.
I'm gonna replace the contents of the "lyrics" file
with this.
Nope, not that. I copied the wrong thing.
This.
And we're going to add and commit this on the master branch.
So "git add lyrics," "git commit,"
just go with "begin 404 lyrics."
And then we're just gonna copy this,
the second half of the song,
put it at the bottom of the file,
and then add and commit again.
So "git add lyrics," "git commit," "finish 404 lyrics."
And then we realize, "Oh, that was actually a mistake."
Shouldn't have done that on the master branch.
I don't even know if I want those lyrics anymore.
So I'm going to move them to a branch called "404,"
but I already made the commits on the master branch.
So I'm going to undo them on master.
So I need to use the "reset" command,
and I need to figure out where I'm resetting back to.
So this is 404, this is 404.
This is what I want to go back to.
So two commits ago.
Copy that hash.
And then I'm gonna do a "git reset."
But I'm not gonna do hard if you recall,
which also updates the files and undoes the changes.
It doesn't just delete the commits,
it actually undoes changes.
I'm not going to do that.
As this document makes, I hope clear,
keep the changes in your working directory.
Just undo the two commits. Okay?
So we don't see anything change over here,
but if I do a "git log," we don't see those 404 commits.
So now, I can make my new branch called "404."
So "git switch -c 404."
And those changes come with me
if I look at "git status," right?
It says you modified the lyrics file.
So now I can add and commit on this branch,
"git add lyrics," "git commit."
I don't know. How about "write 404 parody lyrics."
Geez, can't type.
Okay, so that's on the 404 branch.
And now I can switch back to master. Right?
Here's the 404 lyrics, but on master they're gone.
We have the original "Yesterday" lyrics.
All right, we don't have that 404 commit.
This is the final thing on the master branch.
And if we switch back to 404,
we have those lovely parody lyrics.
And if we switch to "scrambled-eggs,"
which is the other branch that we made early on,
I have the original "Scrambled Eggs" version of "Yesterday."
And that's it for the exercise. Okay.

--- What Does Github Do For Us? ---

Instructor: Alright, so let's start
with the obvious question.
What exactly is GitHub or what does it do?
There's many answers to that question
because GitHub over the years
has really evolved and added on a bunch of features.
But the core mechanic,
the single thing that GitHub is known for
is that it's a hosting platform for Git repositories.
GitHub allows us to put our Git repos in the cloud.
We can access them from anywhere,
we can share them with people,
and we can collaborate with people on Git repos.
So GitHub has a bunch of features built
that have to do with collaboration
and discussion about Git repos.
So I showed this slide very early on
but I just want, I return to it.
There is an important
huge difference between Git and GitHub.
Git, hopefully you're familiar with by now
is a version control system
that we run on our machines locally.
We don't need the internet, we don't need an account.
You could go your entire life working with Git
and never using GitHub.
GitHub on the other hand, is a website.
It's a hosting platform for Git repositories.
You need the internet to access it.
You need an account.
It is completely, I don't wanna say completely separate
from Git, because it is a hosting service for Git repos,
but Git itself is completely independent.
So imagine I'm working on a video game,
a mobile game that I'm developing on my machine,
and I'm using Git to track it.
I have a couple of commits.
Let's say there's like a couple hundred.
Those three you're seeing on my machine are just
to fit in the diagram
and I can make a GitHub account,
make a GitHub repository, and push my local code,
that repo from my machine up to GitHub.
And I could do this for a couple of reasons.
One, I just wanna back things up.
So I keep doing my work
and I can push those changes up to GitHub.
So now GitHub has a record of my repository.
So maybe there's a house fire, a horrible tragedy.
I get a new laptop, I lost my old laptop
with the repo on it.
Well, fortunately for me,
assuming I kept my GitHub up to date,
I can go to GitHub and get that code
and pull it down to my machine.
So that's kind of a, I won't say rare,
but not as common scenario.
What really is great about pushing my code up to GitHub
is that I can collaborate.
So maybe I decide I need to bring in, you know, a
I don't know, another engineer over here on the left
and I don't know what her name is, let's say Zelda.
And then I bring in a graphics artist,
a pixel artist over here on the right.
His name is Link.
So I need their help.
So using GitHub, they can all clone
or they can all get access to this repository
on their machine,
and then they can make contributions,
put 'em up on GitHub
and then we can pull them down
and get those latest contributions to those new commits.
And this allows us to collaborate
and maybe eventually if my game's a hit,
we're talking about dozens or hundreds of collaborators.
So this is really where GitHub shines.
It's important to know that GitHub
is not the only option for some of these features,
specifically for hosting repositories.
There are other options like GitLab, Bitbucket,
but the truth is that in recent years
GitHub has just completely obliterated the competition.
It's now become the world's largest host
of source code.
In early 2020,
they reported having over 40 million users,
these days it looks like over 56 million in 2021,
just from their own marketing page,
which we'll come back to.
It's really a lovely marketing page.
And the last slide here on GitHub that's very important
is that it's free for our purposes.
So unlike a lot of subscription platforms
or websites where the free tier is just garbage,
or it's just supposed to like lure you
in to paying more, right?
Where maybe you have a very limited set of features
and if you pay 10 bucks a month
then you can actually use this in a useful way.
That is not GitHub's model.
GitHub offers paid tiers,
but they're largely oriented towards enterprise,
towards companies.
For individuals, for developers,
the free tier gives you pretty much everything
you would need
unless you are creating some incredibly popular tool,
an open source project that's like used
by millions of people.
In all likelihood, you'll never need to subscribe to GitHub.
So I can show you the different pricing tiers here, right?
Here's free, there is a team, there's enterprise level,
but with this free level,
we have unlimited public and private repositories,
unlimited collaborators.
There's these things called GitHub actions
we'll talk more about.
So there are some distinctions there.
You pay for more actions or more minutes a month.
And then there are some security features.
Larger enterprise companies might want,
single sign-on, advanced auditing,
but we really don't need to worry about that.
We're focused on just the core mechanics of GitHub.
It's all here for us,
which we are very, very thankful for.
Somewhat rare in the world of subscriptions.
So I'll end off by just scrolling through their
beautiful marketing page.
I really love the illustrations they have.
You can see, you know, some stats about
how many people are using it.
72% of Fortune 50 companies.
It's really grown both in market share for just
open source development and random developers like me,
but also in large companies.
So tons of big companies use it.
I'd say it all boils down to this,
give your code a home in the cloud.
But there are many other features.
It almost acts as a social network for Git repos
where you can chat, write comments,
approve, disapprove,
suggest changes to projects,
merge code in, reject code,
call attention to certain lines of code.
Then there are some other things that don't necessarily
have to do with Git repos,
but are kind of adjacent,
like these interactive developer environments.
I think, what do they call it?
Code spaces.
That's new.
GitHub actions, we'll come back to later on.
Additional features like
automatically scanning your repositories
and looking for common vulnerabilities
and letting you know ahead of time
and a whole bunch of other things.
So, ah, let's end with that.
What a beautiful illustration.
Okay, so that's it.
GitHub does a lot, but for us, what we care about
is the fact that it will host our repositories
and help facilitate collaboration.
Whoof.

--- Why You Should Use Github! ---

Instructor: In this video,
I'll do my best to keep this quick,
I wanna talk about why you should use GitHub,
or know how to use it.
And not just the basic reason of, you know,
backing up your code or being able to collaborate,
although obviously that's really important part
of using GitHub and one
of the main reasons people want to use it,
but there are other reasons,
especially if you're part of the, I guess,
greater developer community.
Things like, if you're looking for a job down the line
or trying to meet potential mentors.
There are other reasons.
So collaboration is 100%,
one of the most important reasons to use GitHub.
If we take a look at some projects, I mean,
you can see there are certain repositories that have 1,500+
different contributors working on the same project.
So that's pretty amazing.
And there are repos
with thousands and thousands of contributors.
But the first reason I wanna focus on that,
maybe is slightly different
than just a generic collaboration is good,
is open source projects.
If you're not familiar with the term,§ or need a recap,
open source projects are projects where
the code base is available,
not just typically, not just to look at
but also to make contributions to, to fix bugs, to discuss
with a community, a greater community of people,
usually the users of the product.
Anyway, GitHub has become the home
of open source projects on the internet today.
And so if you ever plan on working on open source projects
or contributing or starting your own,
GitHub is the place to do it currently.
And if you have never made contributions,
you might want to consider making open source contributions,
especially if you plan on looking for a job at some points.
It's great proof that you know what you're doing.
So just a couple of open source projects,
things like React. Very, very, very popular tool,
JavaScript library, it's all on GitHub
and lots and lots of people have made contributions.
So it's not just the people on the official React team
at Facebook.
Same thing with TensorFlow, just to give another example,
so a machine learning framework, 100- no,
that's how many people use it.
Almost 3,000 contributors.
And that brings me to the next point, which is,
GitHub can give you, as a developer,
it can give you exposure, it can give you,
I won't say notoriety, but if you do contribute
to open source projects consistently, you are going to
run into people and, and sort of make friends,
or at least GitHub friends,
because you're having conversations,
you're talking about features and lines of code together.
Additionally, employers will often look
at your GitHub profile,
so I'll just show you one or two of those.
This is my friend Carly, who was recently looking for a job.
You can actually see her contributions here,
stopped when she got a job and
started working on that job full-time.
But we've got things like,
her repositories she's worked on.
If I'm thinking about hiring her, I might go take a look
at one of them, and what is this?
Oh, this is like a marketing website for a concert series,
and then we can take a look.
Okay, so that's just a very simple demo of how, you know,
your GitHub profile can act
as a bit of a resume for your code.
So we can take a look at all her different projects.
Similarly, here's another friend, I can see recently,
just this January, he contributed to Material UI,
a very popular large front-end component library.
And if I was thinking about hiring somebody
and I saw that, you know,
it's not an instant yes, but it's a good sign.
And then the last reason that I'll list,
is that GitHub can help you stay up-to-date.
It has some sort of vaguely social networky features.
And if, let's say you're a React developer, you can stay
up-to-date on changes coming to the React project,
you can stay sort of active
in the conversation and learn more about, you know,
when that next massive update is coming,
that is gonna change everything,
you can even anticipate it.
If you're active on GitHub, you can set up notifications
and you can be the first to know.
Anyway, for us, the main reason that it all comes back to
is collaboration, getting our code up on GitHub.
But these side effects are nice too, right?
Being able to work on open source projects
is great in general,
but specifically if you're looking for a job,
it can be a great idea, a great sort of, resume builder.
You can gain exposure, you can meet mentors
and just sort of have a presence in the coding world
and you can stay up-to-date
on repositories and upcoming changes.

--- Cloning Github Repos With Git Clone ---

Instructor: So the first thing we're going to cover
is cloning.
Cloning is a really important part
of working with remote repositories.
In fact, it's such an important thing that we do in Git.
If we go to the documentation under reference,
all the commands are grouped together
like the basic snapshot and commands:
adding and git status, git commits, branching and merging.
They're grouped together.
But then up top there are two commands side by side,
getting and creating projects: inits and clone.
So we've seen how to use git init
to create a new project or a new repo from scratch.
We've done that for every repository
but git clone does something different.
Git clone actually goes and gets a repository
that is not on your machine
and it brings it to your machine.
It basically downloads the contents of a repository
based upon some URL that we provide.
Typically, that URL will be from a service like GitHub.
And in this course
and 99% of the open source projects out there,
it will be a GitHub repository that you're cloning
but it could be something else.
Bitbucket, it could be a self-hosted repository.
Git does not care.
The command git clone is part of Git.
It's not part of GitHub.
So here it is git clone and then a URL
and that URL is where Git will go and retrieve
all the relevant information for a repository from.
It will copy the files to your machine.
It initializes a new repository on your machine
so that gives you access to the full Git history
of whatever project you're cloning
and I'm gonna demo this in just a moment.
So as an example, there's some repository on GitHub.
Let's say it's, I don't know, it's React
or it's a "Flappy Bird" clone.
It's some game on GitHub.
I want the source code and the Git history.
So if I run git clone with the corresponding URL,
whatever that GitHub URL is for that hosted repo,
git is gonna go fetch all that
and bring it down to my machine.
I'll have the full history, all the commits, all the files.
So I'll go ahead and demonstrate this.
Here's a GitHub repository that I don't have.
It's for the game "2048" which some of you probably know.
This game, very addictive.
It's, I don't know how many years old now but anyway,
it's just a JavaScript, HTML, some CSS,
that it's a game.
You can open it up and play it in your browser.
So if I want the code for that
and I want the full Git history,
of course I can see it on GitHub, right?
That's what GitHub is doing for me here as a user.
I can view this URL.
I can look at different commits, 180 commits.
I can see who contributed.
I can read about it.
I can take a look at, you know,
the index HTML file in the browser.
But I'm gonna clone this URL.
One option is just to copy this URL right here.
Another option on GitHub is to click right here
and it's gonna show me the clone URL
which is the same thing as we see up there.
I can click this button.
I can, you know, Command+C,
however you want to get that URL.
I'm gonna get that URL.
And by the way,
this repository link is in the resources with this video.
If you wanna try this, definitely recommend you do.
Now, I'm gonna go over to my terminal.
The first thing you always wanna do when you're cloning
is make sure that you're not in a repository.
Just like when you run git init.
So I just like to do git status.
Okay, we're not in a repository.
And then wherever you run git clone,
that is the place, that folder, where git is going to create
a new folder for you.
So I'm in a folder called what is this?
Just, well actually, I meant to be in this folder Cloning.
So now I'm in a folder Cloning.
There's nothing in here.
It's gonna make me a new folder when I run this command
git clone and then I paste the URL
that's coming from GitHub.
I don't have anything from this URL.
I don't have this repository on this machine.
I'm not in a git repo.
But when that finishes
and you will need internet for this, when that finishes,
we see a new folder that was not there before.
I typed LS, there was nothing.
If I go into that folder and I type LS,
okay I've got a whole bunch of stuff, right?
I've got index.html, JavaScript folder, style folder,
some other stuff going on.
And it looks like this is a git repo, right?
If I type git status, yes it is.
If I type git log, I can see the full history of commits.
See all that stuff.
That's all or it came from GitHub.
I can see all the commits and who made them,
when they were made.
There's, you know, all the code here.
I can open it up and take a look.
I can even run this.
And there, this is actually running.
This is not the hosted version.
This is running from my machine.
You can see here and there we are.
I could play around with it myself.
I could change the styles.
I've opened up the CSS, main.css
and I could do something like, is there a background?
What are we dealing with?
The background color somewhere.
Ah, there we are.
Let's make that some form of green or olive.
Sure, olive. Just like that.
So pretend I've tweaked a whole bunch of things.
I can see those changes, right?
This is all just for me to experiment
and play around with locally.
Although in the next couple of sections,
I'll also show how we could make changes
and then try and contribute, try and share these changes
with the owner of the repository.
Try and suggest, maybe not this (laughs)
but maybe there's a bug that someone's identified
and I volunteer to fix it.
I would need to clone the repository.
Whether I'm just messing around
and breaking things and playing and changing colors,
whether I'm trying to understand how something works
or whether I wanna make contributions, I need to clone.
So that command git clone, it's pretty simple.
Just git clone and then a URL.
Make sure you're not in a Git repository when you run it
because it creates, well, it creates a folder,
but in that folder there is a Git repository
that's been initialized
and it has the full history of the project.
I'm just showing it to you in GitKraken very quickly.
This is the cloned repository
and we can see a lot of commits going on as I scroll,
a lot of different branches over time,
a lot of different contributors.
And I could take a look at any of them, right?
I could go all the way back to the beginning.
Oh boy, look initial commit, basic styling.
The very basic stuff like add win, win conditions
so you can win the game.
All the way up to things up top
where other developers have contributed.
I'll just show one more example.
This is another GitHub repository.
This one is just a list.
It's a list of companies that hire
without whiteboarding interviews,
without the the bad computer science trivia questions
that don't actually test your abilities as a developer.
It's open source.
People contribute,
you know different companies that are on here.
If I want this repository for whatever reason on my machine,
nevermind the fact that, you know, just
it's probably easier to view it here.
But if I wanted to contribute and add,
I could copy this URL
or I can click here and copy that.
They're the same URL.
Go to my terminal which is somewhere.
There we are.
Make sure I'm not in a git repo and I am right now.
So I'm gonna back out and now I'm not.
Type git status. I'm not.
Git clone, paste the URL.
It takes a moment.
This one's a bit larger.
And then I have a new folder.
Hiring without whiteboards.
Git status inside.
Yes, it is a repository.
I type LS.
We can see all the files here.
And I type git log, and I can see all of the contributions,
all the individual commits.
There's quite a bit here.
Let's do one line
and then I can scroll through all of them.
I could open this in GitKraken and show you the same thing.
I have the full history for that entire repository
on my machine.
I didn't create the repository right?
I just cloned it using git clone.
Great command.
Excellent, excellent, great command.
Remember, it's a git command.
It is not tied to GitHub.

--- Cloning Non-Github Repos ---

Instructor: One other thing about git clone,
something that I do get asked frequently from beginners
is do I have permission to clone this stuff?
The answer is yes.
If you see it on GitHub, if you actually can see it,
you have permission to clone it
and do whatever you want with it
in terms of tweaking the code.
And that doesn't mean you can turn around
and resell it necessarily, depending on how it's licensed,
but you definitely are able to clone
that repository to your machine.
So anybody can clone, if it's a public repository,
and if it was private,
you wouldn't be able to see it anyways.
You wouldn't know the URL, you wouldn't be able to go
to it on GitHub, but if you can see it on GitHub
copy that URL, you can clone it.
You don't need to be an owner or a contributor.
However, you're not allowed to just push up
your own changes, we haven't talked about pushing,
but once we get there, you can't just push changes
up to a repository that somebody else owns.
There's a whole workflow for suggesting changes,
for becoming a contributor,
but you can't just take over someone's repository,
clone it, delete everything,
and then push that up to GitHub.
So that's very, very important to understand.
If you see the repo on GitHub, you can clone it.
Now, everything I've said has been cloning
or everything I've demonstrated has been using git clone
with GitHub repositories because GitHub is so popular,
it's the standard place to host Git repositories.
But remember that git clone
works with any hosted repository.
In fact, if you go to the documentation,
the Git docs for git clone,
there is no mention of GitHub anywhere on here.
So even if that's where a lot of people are using it,
is to clone GitHub repos,
that's just how people are using it,
that is not the nature of the command.
Instead, it works with any hosted repository,
whether that's something that you're serving yourself,
like maybe a company has their own internal server
with a hosted repo,
or maybe we're using something like GitLab.
So I actually struggled to find something that was public,
that we could clone, that was not from GitHub.
But here's an example, this is a project on GitLab,
it's just called Sample Project,
it's really just for demonstrating
how to clone something on GitLab.
So you don't need to go through
and follow along with this, but if you want to,
I'll include the link.
I'm just gonna copy the URL
and then I'm gonna go to my terminal, if I can find it,
over here, I'm gonna make sure I'm not in a repository,
so I am, back out, now I'm not, and I run git clone,
and this time it's not a GitHub URL,
this is entirely different, and it looks like it worked.
I have a new folder called Sample Project.
This is not exciting on the inside,
but you can see I'm in a Git repo,
I'm on the master branch right now.
Git status.
Here's Git log.
There's four or so commits in there.
Alright, so just proof that git clone is not tied to GitHub,
it's just a native git command.
Most of the usage you'll see online is with GitHub,
but it will clone any hosted repo.

--- Github Setup: SSH Config ---

Instructor: So the next step, a very important one,
is to register for GitHub.
So go to github.com if you don't have an account yet
and click Sign up.
So then, you'll need to come up
with a username, an email address, and a password.
Make sure that you use a real email address
because you will need to verify the email.
And it's helpful,
things work better if the email address you use here
is the one that you configured very early on in the course.
If you remember, we did this,
let's see, git config user.email.
So I'm actually using a special email that GitHub gives me,
but basically we want git to use the same email address here
that we use on GitHub.
I use this weird noreply email
just so that I'm not like publicly blasting my email address
in every git commit or in every video I do using git.
But it works best if whatever your account email is
is also set up locally in your git config,
and that just helps GitHub know who you are, you know.
When you push up code,
it knows to use your profile and your image
and sort of track your work.
Anyway, so sign up, use an email address, your username.
And then the second step, once that is done,
is to configure an SSH key.
So without going into too much detail,
SSH, I believe stands for Secure Shell, is this protocol
that allows us to be authenticated without having to write
our email or our username and password
every single time we wanna interact with GitHub
from the command line.
So what we need to do is generate one of these SSH keys
and then tell GitHub about it.
And to do that,
we're gonna follow the instructions on GitHub
that go into detail about how to do that.
So it depends on the platform you're on, but the first step
is to check if you have an SSH key generated already,
and all you do to figure that out is run this command here.
You can just copy this command.
You don't want that dollar sign.
And this is going to show a whole bunch of,
it may show a whole bunch of existing files
in a directory called .ssh.
If nothing is in there
or, rather, if you don't see any of these,
id_rsa.pub,
id_ecdca.pub,
these are all different hashing algorithms.
If you don't see one of these
or you just wanna make a new key,
if you're brand new to all these,
you likely don't have any of these files.
It's no big deal. All we need to do is generate a new key.
So this is where things diverge a bit
if you're on a Windows machine versus a Mac.
I don't think the differences are that significant,
but definitely do it following the tutorial here on GitHub.
Don't use this video as the source of truth.
Things change quickly.
I'll include it as one of the resources.
So I'll go through this process.
I've already set up an SSH key, but I'll do the same thing.
We're gonna copy this right here,
and then we put our email in there,
and that will act as our label.
So I'm gonna go to my terminal.
I'm gonna run this,
then in quotes just gonna use this email here.
This is the one I use for git and GitHub.
Okay, and then it's gonna ask me for a file
where it should save that key.
So this is the default filename and the default location,
in this .ssh folder.
If you just hit Enter, it's going to use that.
You can also come up with your own filename if you want.
However, all the GitHub tutorials use this name, id_ed25519.
So I'm just gonna go with that. I'm gonna hit Enter.
And then enter a passphrase.
So you can type that passphrase,
and then enter the same passphrase again.
All right, so then it tells me
that my identification has been saved in this file
and my public key has been saved in a similar file,
but it ends in .pub.
It's the public key.
I'm not going into detail, explaining how this stuff works
because it doesn't really matter at this point.
We just wanna get it set up.
So the next step
is to then add the SSH key to the SSH agent.
So we're gonna copy this line, if you're on a Mac,
and there are some instructions.
Depending on the macOS operating system,
I guess that's what OS is,
and depending on the version that you're running,
you may need to make some additional changes.
So I'm gonna try this here.
Okay, so that looks like it's working fine.
So the next step on a Mac is to check
if we have this file called config in the ssh directory.
So we can see if it exists.
And if it doesn't exist,
you can run this command to make it.
So if you get this line, it says it does not exist,
try this one to make that file,
and, again, this is only if you're on a newer Mac.
And then here, we need to open that file
and then put this right here, just copy this,
and put that in the file.
Now, if you gave your filename, when you generated the keys,
if you gave it a different name from the default,
you'll need to reflect that name here, but I'm just going
with what they have in the documentation.
So I'm gonna paste that in,
hopefully you can see this, and save.
So that was the name of my file.
If you remember, right here,
this is what I set to save it as it just hit Enter.
So that matches this right here coming from the GitHub Docs.
Also, if you elected to use a passcode
when you generated the key, you want this line.
If you did not use a passcode, you don't want that line.
Now, the final step here
is, well, the final step before we go to GitHub
is to copy this line which is to add our key
to something called the SSH agent which we just started up.
And if we do this, again, you need to make sure
you're using the correct filename
that matches the filename you generated,
but, again, this is the default.
So if you didn't deviate, this is all you need to do.
We'll run this line. Okay, identity added.
So now, final step is to go to GitHub
and add that SSH key to the GitHub account.
So what we need to do is copy the contents
of the key that was generated, the public key.
So, again, just copy this line
if you're using the same name and you didn't modify it.
You won't see any output, but this command, pbcopy,
copies the output of this into your clipboard.
So on the clipboard right now I have this key here.
So I got that. I have access to it.
And now I need to go onto GitHub
and go to my profile, profile photo up top,
and then go to Settings, I believe is what it is.
Super zoomed in here. Here we are.
And then I click on SSH, and then I'll add a new key.
So I'll just demonstrate this. I go to GitHub.
Here's my profile, I'm gonna go to Settings,
and then SSH and GPG keys,
and then I'm gonna click New SSH key just like that,
then I'm gonna paste this in,
thing I copied from the clipboard over here
or copied to my clipboard.
And then give it a title
just like laptop, for example, or mykey, it doesn't matter,
and I'm going to add it.
All right, so we should be good to go now.
I know it's obnoxious process, but once we have it done,
really don't ever have to do it again,
at least not on this machine.
With that said, I'm gonna do it again
after recording this video.
But we should have the key set up,
and we'll know if it works or not
when we try pushing in the next couple of videos.

--- Creating Our First Github Repo! ---

Presenter: Okay, so let's talk
about how we actually get our code up on GitHub.
How do we take a local gi.repo on our laptop
and how do I connect that
in some way to a hosted GitHub repo?
How do I connect them?
How do I set up the repo on GitHub?
And then what do I do
on my machine to tell it about the GitHub repo?
Well, there's really two different approaches
or two options that I'm gonna walk through.
In this video, I'm just gonna talk about both of them
and just explain how they work
and then we'll dive into actually doing them.
So the first option called option one is
if you have an existing repo on your machine.
If you have something that you've already been working on,
it already has Git history, you already have code,
whatever it is, and you wanna get that on GitHub,
these would be the steps that you follow.
You create a new repo on GitHub
then you connect your local repo
by adding something called a remote.
We'll go into that.
So you add that remote to your local machine
and then you push your changes up to GitHub.
So here's some diagrams.
If I have something I've been working on
whether it's just a day of work, an hour of work,
an empty repository that I've created, or years of work,
whatever it is, if it's on my machine and not on GitHub.
I go onto GitHub and I make a new empty repository.
I'll show that in just a moment too.
So once I make that new empty repository
then what I do is tell my computer, specifically,
tell this gi.repository about the GitHub repository
and then I can push my code up to the GitHub repo.
The other option is, if I don't have anything done yet,
I don't have a repo anywhere.
I know I wanna start a project, and I know right
outta the gate that I also want to use GitHub alongside gi.
If that's the case, I can start on GitHub, make a new repo
on GitHub, and clone that down to my machine
as an empty repository.
Instead of running git and Knit, I can clone down
my GitHub repo that's empty and start working
in that repo, and then push it up to GitHub.
And if I do it that way, I don't have to manually connect
my local repo to my GitHub repo, because
if I clone this repo from GitHub, it automatically
is connected to that GitHub DRL.
So some diagrams to illustrate that I don't have
any repositories yet, either on GitHub or on my machine.
And I start by making a new repo on GitHub,
which I'm visualizing as this empty container.
And then I clone that down to my laptop.
And because it came from this clone, it automatically knows
about this GitHub URL.
So now I can do my work locally and push it up.
I don't have to connect them in any way, but I'm gonna
actually start by showing you the other option.
Option one, because you may have some existing code.
I mean, we certainly have existing repos from the course.
None of them are very useful,
but we have existing repos, right?
We've been working with Git
and let's talk about how to get that on GitHub.
So to do that,
the first step is to make an empty GitHub repo.
So if you wanna follow along, start
by just picking some gi.repository that we've made
or that you've made that you want to get on GitHub.
So it doesn't have to be something that you make public
and it doesn't have to be something
that you keep up there, right?
You can delete it or get rid
of it immediately if you don't want people to see it.
So we've done quite a few different repositories.
Why don't I just take that really simple book repository,
MyFirstNovel, all right, so it's a disastrous repo.
I'd like to get all of this up on GitHub.
Alright, all of this history, all my files.
One more time.
This is what I'm dealing with.
So whatever you have found,
if you have a repo you wanna follow along with,
the first step is to go on GitHub.
So once you're signed in and create a new empty repo
and there's a couple of buttons to do that.
One is just this green button.
If you're on the homepage, new
or if you're somewhere else, like I'm on marketplace,
if I click the plus new repo right there
then I see this page.
Create a new repository.
So we need to come up
with a name about github-demo-novel or something like that.
This is just a name that we'll use to identify it
on GitHub, right?
It doesn't have to match anything
from our actual repository that we have locally
but we don't want spaces.
It will automatically add dashes for us.
I don't know, I just put them in there myself
but we don't need to do that.
You don't really need a description
although you should put one in, especially if you plan
on having other people see this repo or discover it.
But we will talk more about that.
To keep this short and simple.
I'm not gonna put a description in there
and then we can decide if it's public or private.
Now, I'm gonna keep this public in case some
of you wanna take a look at the repo.
Although frankly, for the contents of this book,
it's probably best for my reputation
if I do make it private.
That just means that if someone looks at my profile
if they search, they're not gonna find this repository.
They don't have access to it.
But if it's public, anyone can see it.
Okay, and then I'm not gonna touch this.
We will come back and talk more about these files later.
I'm just gonna click Create repository.
And did I click?
I might've not.
Okay, I guess I didn't click.
And, okay, we now see this page here.
So my username Colt/, and then the repository name.
And then inside of it, there's not really anything to look
at right now, except for a couple of instructions.
Alright, so I'll stop here.
We've made an empty GitHub repository.
Our local repo knows nothing about it.
They're not connected in any way
but that's gonna change in the next video.

--- A Crash Course on Git Remotes ---

Instructor: All right, so the next thing
that we need to do is take
this empty GitHub repo that's in the cloud.
It's not connected at all to our local repo.
And somehow configure our local repo
so that it knows about this GitHub repo.
Well, the way that we do this,
whether we're using GitHub,
or any other service that hosts a repo,
is to set up a Git remote.
So a remote is, really, just a a fancy name
for, like, a destination URL.
It's a URL that we tell Git about, and we give it a name.
It's just like a label for a URL
that we can then push code up to.
Or fetch, or pull down, new code from.
So we'll learn about those commands once we set up a remote.
So an easy place to start is with this command,
git remote, or git remote -v.
They won't do anything except list to you
the current remotes that you have in a repository.
So in our repository, we have not
configured any remotes, right?
At this point, we haven't done anything with remotes.
If I type git remote, or git remote -v,
I'm in my book, MyFirstNovel,
The Great Gatsby repo. Nothing.
But if we actually go to any of the repos that we cloned,
if you followed it along,
I cloned this 2048 repo from GitHub.
Remember this one?
It has a whole bunch of commits.
It's that addicting 2048 game.
Anyway, if I type git remote in here, I see something now.
origin. We'll talk about that in a moment.
Let's do -v so you can see the difference.
If I do -v, I think it's verbose.
We see the name of a remote and the corresponding URL.
So, I didn't set this up, right?
All I did was git clone, and then this URL.
And by doing that, Git made me a local repo.
It put all these files in here.
It gave me all the history.
And it set up a remote that said
the original GitHub URL that this repo came from,
that it was cloned from, is right here.
So, by setting this URL up, this remote origin,
it gives me the ability later on to say,
"Hey, Git, is there any new code on that URL?
Is there any, you know, new updates?"
Or if I was a collaborator,
"Hey, Git, I'd like to push up my new 10 commits."
It's kind of a lot to push up.
But I'd like to push my new two commits
that I did today up to origin.
Okay, so I'll just show you one more example.
If I take a look at, let's see, sample-project.
That was the one that I cloned in the second video I did.
It's really very simple, nothing in there.
It came from, was it Bitbucket? I believe.
If I do git remote -v. No, GitLab, sorry.
It was a non GitHub repository.
The same thing is true, right?
I have a remote called origin automatically set up.
I didn't do that. And it's set to
whatever the URL is that I cloned it from.
Okay, so we did not clone this repository, right?
MyFirstNovel, we ran git in it.
We created it from scratch.
So there are no remotes.
But we can make a remote using this command,
git remote add, and then a &lt;name> and a &lt;url>.
So this is a way of telling Git,
"Hello Git, please remember this URL using this name."
So whatever the name is that we provide.
So a really standard name is origin.
So git remote add origin, and then some GitHub URL.
For a GitHub repo that we've created,
it's telling Git, "Hey, here's a URL.
I'm gonna call it origin. You remember that."
Anytime I refer to origin, I'm talking about this URL.
So the term origin, it's just
a conventional git remote name,
but it's not special in any way.
No magical powers. It doesn't have any secret abilities.
It's just a name for a URL.
You could rename them.
You can come up with whatever names you want for remotes.
But origin is what you'll see all the time.
Similar to how the master branch is a default name,
or the default name for branches.
You can change it to anything.
So in the same way that master is just a name for a branch,
origin is just a conventional name.
You'll see it a lot, but it is not somehow special.
It's just a name for a remote.
So we could instead, add a new remote for this same URL.
But instead, call it mygithuburl,
or lol, or chickens are my friends.
Whatever you want.
But I would suggest origin,
because it's what you'll see the most, and then a URL.
And actually, if we go to the GitHub repository
that we created that's empty,
we see some instructions.
It's telling us, first of all,
if you've done this thing before,
this kind of thing before, here's a URL.
That is the URL for my repo.
I hope this goes without saying,
you should be using your URL, right?
Not my repo, because you won't have permission
to push your code up to my repository.
So I hope you made your own if you're following along.
Then it's telling me, if you don't have a repo yet,
on the, like, at all, locally, follow these instructions.
But I do.
So I'm not following those.
This is what we want.
Push an existing repo from the command line,
and take a look at the very first line,
git remote add origin, and then the URL for my git repo.
It's the same URL we see here.
So I'm gonna copy that. Or just copy the whole line.
It doesn't really matter.
I guess I'll separate it out,
just to hit the point harder here.
So I'm on the MyFirstNovel repository.
Right now, no remotes.
Now, git remote add, and then a name.
I'm gonna go with origin. It's conventional.
And then this GitHub URL,
whatever your GitHub URL is for that repo.
Now, nothing really happens, but, of course,
we can check our work with what we just saw, git remote -v.
So hopefully, we see origin set up to this URL. And it is.
So that's kind of all we need to do for now.
We've connected. We've told our local git repo
about a GitHub URL called origin,
or that's the name that we'll refer to it by.
So in the next video, I'll show you
how we can push code up to origin.
I just wanna emphasize one more time,
it's just a name for a URL, a remote destination.
And this is not super common, but if needed,
you can rename a remote with this command,
git remote rename, the old name space, new name.
And you can get rid of a remote with git remote remove,
and then the name that you're trying to delete.
And later on, we'll actually see that
it's somewhat common to have multiple remotes,
especially when you're working on open source projects.
We'll talk about workflows and how that would work
when we get to that section. Okay.

--- Introducing Git Push ---

Instructor: All right.
So we have one more step
to get our code up on GitHub.
We just need to push it up.
So if you remember option one,
what we're following here,
option one out of two
is to create a new repo on GitHub, which we've done.
Connect the local repo
by adding a remote to our GitHub repo.
We just did that in the previous video.
Now we need to push our changes up.
So we have our existing repo.
I'm doing that stupid "Great Gatsby" novel, fake repo.
I created an empty GitHub repo
and then I set my remote called origin
so that it points at this empty GitHub repo.
So the final step is to push up.
So we do this using the git push command.
Again, this is not GitHub specific,
though everything we'll be pushing to will be a GitHub repo.
But the git push command is a git command
that existed long before GitHub.
And there are many other places
where you can have a hosted repo that you can push to.
So it works with any remote.
Basically, the syntax is git push and then a remote.
In our case, we just have one which is origin
but we can have multiple.
So we have to tell git where we're pushing,
what's the destination repository and what branch to push.
So, you know, we might have a really large repo
with a ton of branches.
Like, actually,
we don't have a ton here but we've got a couple.
No, just two. (laughs)
Oh, well, this is because this video
or this repo was created before we went into branching.
But some of our repos have, like,
I don't know, seven, eight, maybe 10 branches.
And you may not want all of them on GitHub
or you may not wanna push them all at once at least.
So when we push,
we call out a particular branch
that we want to send to GitHub.
Often, that will be your master or main branch.
But you can push any branch up to GitHub
and I'll show you that.
So this is a really common command,
git push origin master.
Though it is becoming slightly less common
as more people rename their master branch to main.
If you recall,
we talked about this early on when I introduced branching.
It now comes up again, master versus main,
because GitHub,
as I mentioned at the end of 2020,
decided to make the default branch name on a GitHub repo
main instead of master.
So their instructions tell you
to add a remote called origin
but then rename your branch,
the master branch to main and then push main.
So I will do this as well in a separate video.
I will show this process.
It's the exact same process.
We rename a branch, we name it main
and then we push up main.
But I'm gonna start with master,
just to keep this as simple as possible,
because we have a master branch, right?
We've been working with the term master,
so we'll start there first.
Okay, so I have this remote called origin,
as we already discussed, git remote dash V.
We see what it's pointing to.
And it's always a good idea to see,
you know, what we have,
if we have any uncommitted changes that won't go up.
Otherwise, we're ready.
We're gonna do a git push.
And then origin is where we're pushing to.
And then master is the branch we are pushing up.
Okay, so this is what our GitHub looks like right now.
I'll refresh.
There's nothing here except these instructions.
This is the repo.
But now I'm gonna push
and there's going to be a substantial change.
And remember,
oh, gosh, I put images in this repo, didn't I?
Well, that's why it's taking a little bit. (laughs)
As you can see here, I have some images in that mood board.
Usually, you don't include images in a,
or at least not large images like I have
but it finished up.
Most repos are gonna push way, way, way faster than that,
because they're usually just code.
So I'm gonna refresh the page.
And now we see something entirely different, right?
We don't see those instructions.
Now we see our file contents.
So chapter one, chapter two, chapter three,
characters, outline.
We see different commits.
I'll actually do a separate video
where I walk through what we see.
But we also have access to things like contributors.
We can see there's only one branch,
which is the master branch.
And I can take a look at chapter one, for example.
Here's the contents of chapter one.
Okay, so we have our code up here.
Now what I wanna show you
is that we can push any branch, right?
I talked about pushing master,
because that's what we have on this project.
But if we make a new branch, which I'll just make,
what should my branch be called?
How about empty or nearly empty?
I switched to that branch
and I'm just gonna delete pretty much everything in here.
I'm gonna delete mood board for sure.
So that's actually RM dash RF to get rid of that.
It's a folder.
And I'll RM, how about all chapters?
So chapter one.
I'll just leave the outline and the characters.
So now, whoops, this is all we have.
I'm on a branch though called empty.
So I'm gonna add everything
and then git commit, delete most things.
All righty.
Now, if I wanna push the code that I just changed,
I wanna push my last commit from this branch.
Remember, I'm on the empty branch.
I need to push the empty branch.
So let me illustrate that here,
I've got some diagrams.
What we just did
was we pushed up our master branch to GitHub.
So there was nothing on GitHub.
I pushed up master, whoops, I went too far.
Git push origin master, assuming our remote is named origin.
Now, in this diagram
I have a second branch called new feature.
I'm gonna push that up.
Git push origin new feature.
In our case, our branch is called empty.
So git push origin empty.
I don't have to be on this branch, by the way.
I happen to be on it, which is very common that,
you know, you're taking a look at what's on a branch
and then you push it up
but you don't have to be on it.
So git push origin empty.
And, remember, if it asks you for your password,
not a big deal,
put your email and password or your username and password.
But go back and check out the SSH video
so that it doesn't have to keep bugging you.
You know, asking you for a password every time you push.
Okay, so now I'm gonna refresh.
And it doesn't look like much changed
but now we have two branches
and we can see the two branches here,
master and empty.
And I can switch between them.
And this is my empty branch.
I'm just viewing it on GitHub
and you'll see it just has two files, right?
Go back to master.
And I have a whole bunch of stuff.
Okay, so I'm gonna just go through this process
one more time,
just to make it very clear.
I'm gonna go back to master,
git switch master.
And let's make some changes.
We'll do some new work here.
How about chapter four dot TXT.
All righty.
And I'll just leave it blank, I guess.
And I'm gonna add that.
So git add chapter four,
git commit, begin chapter four.
Okay, pop quiz.
What's on my GitHub?
What's the most recent commit
that I'll see on the GitHub repo?
Nothing has changed on GitHub.
It's still exactly the same.
If we're looking at the master branch, nothing's changed.
If we're looking at the empty branch,
nothing has changed since we last pushed.
GitHub doesn't just stay in sync automatically
with my local repo.
I have to push.
So why don't I push up that commit?
Chapter four, begin chapter four.
Now, I said push up that commit.
We don't select a specific commit,
we push an entire branch as we've talked about.
So I made that commit on the master branch,
so I'll push that up.
Git push origin,
the only remote we have right now, origin master.
Now, if we head over here and refresh we see,
first of all, my most recent commit,
begin chapter four, one minute ago.
We also see the actual updated contents, right?
Chapter four dot TXT is right there.
Okay, so in the next video I'm going to
kind of walk through GitHub repository,
show you how we view the commits, the branches,
diffs or changes, all that stuff.
And then we'll get some more practice with pushing
and we'll talk about renaming to use the main branch.

--- Touring A Github Repo ---

Instructor: Okay, so I'll keep this short.
Now that we have some code
some repo up on GitHub that actually has contents
it's not empty anymore.
Even if the contents absolutely suck
they're garbage like this repo.
I wanna walk through what we're actually looking at.
So of course we see the files
the actual contents here, right?
We've got chapter one.
We can look at that and inspect and read.
Sure.
We can also switch branches.
So we only have two right now, empty, which was
that branch I made where almost everything was deleted.
And then master.
Notice if I go back to empty, it tells us, you know
this branch has one commit that master does not have.
But it also is missing one commit that master has
we can see here, most recent push
to this branch happened four minutes ago.
And we can also
if we go back to master, it doesn't really matter.
We can see the commits listed here, the most
recent commit that affected each one of these files.
So when I made chapter four
that text file that was part of the commit
begin chapter four, when I added headings to files.
You can see that's the most recent change
to this and this and this one and the outline.
If you recall a while ago, I added those headings in,
anyway if I wanna see all the commits
I can click here where it says 13 commits
and I can see just a visual representation of each commit.
So here's where I began.
Yeah, if you have multiple pages
like lots and lots of commits, you can go between pages.
But this is my most recent commit.
If I click, what do we see?
Well, I just started with these two files
outline.txt and characters.txt.
If I look at a different commit
how about when I...
what did I do?
How about removed extra blank lines in chapter two
if I scroll down, you'll see highlighted in red.
Those are the two lines that were removed
and this is all that was affected.
This one file, right?
We see some other stuff like when I renamed Gatsby
to Catsby, lots of files impacted.
You can see all those impacts here.
This line changed.
Gatsby became Catsby and all these other files too.
So I can see all those commits on the master branch.
The most recent one is begin chapter four.
If I switch to empty, the most recent commit is
delete most things, which in the last video you saw
I deleted quite a few files.
And on each of these commits, I see the commit
message obviously.
And then I also see the commit hash.
And then for some of them that have much longer commits
like this one, right?
I can see the entire commit message.
This is when I demonstrated, you know, how to set up
VS code to make a commit message.
That's much longer.
So I can see the whole commit message here.
Then I can see the files impacted
and I can leave a comment if I want to.
Probably not going to because I'm not collaborating
with anyone.
But if I want to
I can leave comments here and I don't know
revisit them and come back and look at my comments.
But this is actually a very important part of
of discussing changes
once you start working with other people.
And that's pretty much all we need to cover for now.
Eventually we'll learn about things like poll requests
and how to make poll requests, how to compare things.
We are not at that point yet.
That's gonna come up when we talk about workflows.
But yeah, that's pretty much it.
Switch branches here, that's probably the most
hidden thing that sometimes students miss.
If you don't see your changes showing up.
And if you have multiple branches, make sure you switch
to the correct branch to see those changes.
Okay.

--- Practice With Git Push ---

Instructor: This video is just additional practice
or reinforcement on the basic pushing workflow,
add, commit, push up to GitHub and repeats.
So if you feel good about that,
move on to the next video where I talk
about cloning your own repos, option two.
But for now, I'm gonna go back to my first novel
and nothing super exciting in here.
But why don't we make a new branch?
What branch are we on right now?
We're on this empty branch.
What would be a good branch to make?
Why don't we go back to master?
Okay, so I'm gonna switch, git switch master,
and I'm gonna pretend to do some more work.
We've got chapter 2, 3, 4.
Why don't I remove this mood board?
I'm just gonna get rid of that.
So I'm gonna do an RM dash RF mood board.
So I got rid of that folder.
I'll do a git status, I'll add all those changes,
git commits, delete mood board folder.
So now we have this new commit
that only exists here locally on my repo,
on my laptop on the master branch, not up on GitHub.
So now I'm gonna switch to the empty branch,
git switch empty.
I'm gonna make another commit on this branch.
So what do we have in here?
Not a whole lot.
Why don't I make a new file?
We'll call this one characters, outline,
how about Summary dot txt?
And then I'm just gonna add that empty file and commit it.
Add summary file.
Okay, so now we have a commit here on empty
that is not on GitHub,
and we have a commit on master that is not on GitHub.
So let's push both of them up.
It's gonna take two commands, right?
We need to first decide, let's push up master branch
or let's push up the empty branch.
Remember the syntax, git push,
and then our remote is origin.
That's the only one we have.
And then I'll push the master branch to begin with.
Okay, so if I come back to my GitHub and I refresh,
I don't see anything new here, right?
Because I'm still on the empty branch on GitHub.
I'm looking at the empty branch
but if I switch to the master branch,
we can see this new commit two minutes ago,
delete mood board folder.
And we don't see the mood board here anymore at all.
So I can take a look at that commit,
specifically see what was deleted,
as you see there the whole mood board directory
and its image contents.
So that new commit was pushed up
whatever new commits existed on the master branch
but on the empty branch, nothing has changed on GitHub.
Remember on my local empty branch, which I'm on right now,
we have this new file summary
and we have a commit called, well what was it?
Add summary file.
That was the message.
So if I wanna push that up,
I need to do git push origin and then the empty branch.
And if we head over here,
refresh at some points, here we are,
empty had recent pushes less than a minute ago
and we see summary dot txt, that was pushed up
and the commit that it was associated with,
add summary file, two days ago.
So that's, yeah,
that's pretty much all I wanted to show you here, right?
That basic workflow, do some stuff locally on a branch,
make some commits, and then you push that branch up
and that about wraps up the basics
of using the push command, right?
We have a branch locally,
we push it up with git push remote and branch name.
Then GitHub now has that branch hosted in the Cloud.
And then we repeat that
if we want to push another branch up.
Now you don't have to push every branch you make up.
Often what you'll do is have a master or a main branch
and then you'll have branches where you work on features.
You can merge those into master slash main
and then push that new master slash main work up.
Or you can push branches up to GitHub
and just have a whole bunch of branches.
But that's something we'll talk about
when we get to workflows.
All right.

--- A Closer Look At Git Push ---

Instructor: All right, so next up I wanna talk
a little bit more about how push works
and specifically the relationship between a branch
that we have locally and then a branch on GitHub.
So to begin with,
I'm just gonna make a new repository
to demonstrate this with, a new GitHub repository.
I'm just gonna call this pushme, sure.
I'll make it public, I'll create it
and then I'll just copy this line to add the remote, okay.
And now I'm going to make a new repository locally.
I don't have anything going on here.
I'm going to git init and then I'll just make a file here.
How about candy.txt, sure.
Oh geez, I forgot to touch it.
Okay, so I'm gonna add that empty file
and I'm gonna commit create candy file.
All right, so I'm gonna add this remote.
Right, we've seen this before, git remote add origin,
just the URL for that GitHub repository.
Now when I run this command,
if I wanna push up my master branch, git push origin master.
What this does, as we've already talked about,
is it pushes up my master branch,
whatever commits or on it, up to GitHub.
But what is really important to understand
is that this will actually create a master branch on GitHub
the very first time.
Right, there is no branch on GitHub at the moment
and there is a branch called master locally.
So it's going to create a new master branch on GitHub.
And then I have my local master branch
and they're connected as you can see by this little arrow
it shows me, it just says master pointing to master.
This is something we're going to learn more about
in the next section when we talk about fetching and pulling,
but there's a distinction between the branches
you have locally and the branches on GitHub.
If I refresh here, there we are,
we see the master branch and I see this empty candy file.
Now usually, well a lot of the time,
we want to connect and push our master branch
up to the master branch on GitHub, but we don't have to.
So I wanna be very clear about that.
If I do more work here,
let's just make another file touch candy and Flowers.txt.
I'll add that and I'll commit -m create flowers.
If I do a git push origin master again,
this time it doesn't make a new branch called master
on GitHub, it's already here.
So it's just going to push our master branch
to this master branch on GitHub.
It just assumes that's what we want.
That's what we've told it.
If you just specify this, just a single branch named master,
it's going to, it git is going to take
our local master branch
and push it up to the remote master branch.
So we'll see that.
Hopefully no surprise
and we see this second file, our second commit show up
but we can actually push to different branches.
So this syntax is not that crazy looking,
but right here, it's a little bit intimidating
when I write it out with the official definition.
Basically if we write git push and then a remote like origin
and then I specify a local branch, a colon,
and a remote branch, this would enable me to push
a local branch to a remote branch of a different name.
So take the local pancake branch,
that one goes first local on my machine
and push it to the origins branch called Waffle.
So I'm gonna demonstrate this, it's nowhere near as common
but I do wanna make it clear that there's a distinction.
They don't have to be the same,
you don't have to push master up to master
even though that's the default behavior
if you just run git push origin master.
So why don't I make a new branch?
What should this one be called?
How about cats, okay.
So I have this new branch called cats
and I'm gonna make some changes on it.
Like just add, I guess we'll just make a cats file.
I know this is quite the boring repository.
Let's add cats.
I'm on this branch, right?
So create cat's file, I'm on the cat's branch.
If I do a git push origin cats,
that will push up my local cats branch to a branch
on origin that doesn't exist yet,
it will create it, called cats.
But if I instead, I don't want that to happen,
which I'll just do it first, so you see that,
just more practice, right, the master branch is unchanged.
We don't see cats, but if I go to the cats branch,
can toggle them here, we see the Cat's file.
Anyway, if I instead want to get that work on master,
not a normal thing to do, but I'm just gonna show this.
If I do git push origin and then my local branch, cats,
and then the destination branch on the remote,
this is the syntax, local branch that we have
on our machine colon,
and then the name of a branch on GitHub,
so master or if we had some other branch on GitHub, sure.
This tells gits to take our local cats branch
and push it up to the origin master branch.
Let's try it.
Okay, and we see this diagram,
it's not a diagram really, but we see this,
it says or it tells us it pushed the cats branch
to the master branch this time.
So if I refresh now,
on the master branch on GitHub, we see that cats file.
Even though we didn't push the master branch
from our machine up, we pushed the cats branch
but we pushed it to the GitHub master branch.
So I know that's kind of confusing,
and again, not at all common, but you can do it,
and I just showed it to you to make it clear
that there's a distinction between the branch
on your machine and the branch on GitHub
and when we normally do things
like this git push origin master.
Yes, we're pushing the master branch
from our machine to the master branch on GitHub.
Normally we want them to be the same
but they don't have to be, all right.

--- What does "git push -u" mean? ---

Instructor: One more thing to talk about with git push
is the dash U option, which you've likely seen.
When you create a new repository,
which I won't, actually.
Well, I guess I kind of have to if I wanna show you.
Eh, okay, I'll delete this one.
But if I make a new repository,
the instructions GitHub gives me,
both of them end with this line,
git push something, but with a dash U.
So what is this dash U option?
Well, it stands for upstream,
which probably doesn't mean a lot.
The upstream of a local branch is kind of like,
think of it as a connection pointing to a remote branch.
So if we have our master branch on our local machine,
normally we want the upstream branch to be origin master
or some master branch on GitHub.
They are connected,
and this enables me to do things like just run git push
without having to specify origin master,
and if I've configured the upstream for my master branch,
then I get to use this shortcut.
So there are other situations where this comes up as well,
like with pulling, and we talked about that.
But again, it's not something that we have to do
in order to push, but it's recommended,
'cause it can make your life easier.
So when we run this, git push -u origin master,
this tells Git that on my computer, locally in my repo,
I want to push up the master branch to origin master,
and I want you to remember that,
I want you to recall in the future,
that my master branch on my computer
is connected to the master branch on origin.
So if I do this right now, let's see.
If I make a new branch on this example we were doing,
let's make a new branch called dogs.
All right?
So this branch, right now, does not exist on GitHub.
If I push it up, git push origin dogs,
you can see it's not here,
but it will make a new dogs branch on GitHub.
There it is.
Okay.
But I did not set the upstream, right?
I did not use that dash U option, but that's okay.
If I want to push up again,
whatever I have on this dogs branch, let's make a change.
Let's make a new file.
dogs.txt, git add dogs, git commit,
just an empty file, create dogs.
If I want to push that up,
I have to do git push origin dogs.
That's totally fine, it's not a big deal.
But normally, I want my dogs branch
to be connected to the GitHub dogs branch, right?
I want this connection right here, dogs pointing to dogs.
My local dogs branch connected
to the GitHub dogs branch on origin, that's standard.
In the previous video, I showed you that you can push
from one branch to something with a different name,
but normally we want them connected,
and if I use this dash U, that will enable it to happen.
But before that, if I just try git push,
you'll see it fails.
It says the current branch dogs has no upstream branch.
So here's one way to do this.
Dash dash set upstream,
or we just use Dash U, which is equivalent.
So I'm gonna do that now.
git push -u origin dogs.
So remember, if we don't use this weird colon syntax
that I showed you in the previous video,
git is going to take our local dogs branch
and push it up to the origin dogs branch.
It uses the same name.
And this dash U says, I want you to remember that.
Set the upstream for dogs to be origin dogs.
And now it shows me this line right here,
branch dogs set up to track remote branch dogs from origin.
So now if I make a change,
let's just make a new file, touch moredogs.
git add moredogs, git commit, create more dogs.
If I do just git push and nothing else,
now we have an upstream set,
and it knows, for this dogs branch that I'm on,
what that upstream is,
and it pushes up to my GitHub dogs branch,
and we see moredogs showing up here.
So that's the use case for dash U.
Normally, you'll use it in this context,
but you could use it in a situation like this
if you wanted to set the upstream to be something other
than the remote branch of the same name.
In other words, if I wanted to set, I'm not gonna do this,
but if I wanted to set the dogs branch locally,
I wanted to push that up to the cats branch
and set that upstream, I can.
So if I ran this, not only would it push my dogs branch
from my machine up to the remote cats branch on GitHub,
it would also say, in the future,
this dogs branch should have an upstream
referring to the origin cats branch.
Normally, you don't want that,
and also, it can be a headache,
and I don't recommend you try this stuff.
You'll run into merging issues
if you're pushing from multiple branches
to the same remote branch, the cats branch,
it's just, you don't wanna do it.
Anyway, it's possible,
but normally, you'll use it in this context.
The very first time you push some branch up,
use that dash U, and the local branch of that name
will have its upstream set to the origin branch of that name
or whatever this remote is called.
All right.

--- Another Github Workflow: Cloning First ---

Presenter: In this video, I wanna show you option two
for getting your code up on GitHub
or connecting a local repo
to a hosted repo starting from scratch.
So this works if you haven't started your work
on your project at all, you know, you wanna use GitHub
and you know you need a git-repo on your machine
but you don't have an existing project to push up.
So we can start on GitHub.
We can make a brand new empty repo on GitHub.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
Then we clone that to our machine.
So I'd make it on GitHub, clone it down
and that act of cloning it down,
automatically configures the remote for me.
So then, I can do some work and push it up.
So this will be quick.
Let's make a new repo.
Remember you can do that by clicking new
or by going to the plus sign new repository.
I'll make this one.
I don't know.
How about chicken's?
Chickens-demo.
Okay, and we can make it public or private.
We will come back at a later point
in the course to talk about README files.
We've already talked about get Ignore.
So if, if you wanna start with a gitignore file,
we can do that on GitHub and clone that down.
Or we can make our own gitignore.
I'm just gonna keep this simple
and have an empty starter repository called chickens-demo.
All right, so now
that I have this empty repository on GitHub,
the next step is to clone it down to my machine, right?
So we've made this repo on GitHub.
There's no corresponding repo on our machine.
We clone it down.
So to clone, all we need to do is copy this URL, right?
So I'm gonna copy that
and then I'm gonna go to my local machine.
Let's back out into, let's see
just the GitHub directory I made.
I have this cloning directory sure.
So in here, type git status.
We're not in a git-repo.
I'm now gonna run git clone, and then chickens-demo.git
and it tells me you appear to have cloned
an empty repository.
Okay, so we have a new folder called chickens-demo.
There's nothing in there, but it is a new folder.
And if I type git status, it is a git-repository
and I don't have any work to push up.
But we do have a pre-configured remote called Origin.
So now I can do some work.
Let's make a a really simple file.
touch chickens.txt, and then we can open that up
and put something in there.
So here it is in my editor.
Let's put one of my chicken, Stevie Chicks in there
and then The Grey Lady / Lady Gray, another one
of my chickens.
Anyway, we have some contents in there.
I'm gonna add and commit.
Pretend we've done some actual work.
So get add chickens, git commit, add,
You know, my first two chickens, great fire, fresh GitHub.
Nothing has changed whatsoever
because I still have to push as we've talked about.
So that's the next step.
I've done some work, not a whole lot
but I've done some work locally.
Now we push that up.
So it's the same exact workflow from this point forward.
The only difference between what I showed you earlier
is that we cloned an empty repo
and started working in that repo
versus our first approach was we've been working
on something locally.
We have a bunch of commits.
I wanna get those on GitHub.
So I'm not gonna clone an empty repo.
I already have my repo on my machine.
So I make an empty repo on GitHub
and then I configure a remote.
So my local repo points to that GitHub repo.
Anyway, I'm gonna push,
so it's just the master branch at this point, right?
That's the only branch I have.
In the next video, I'll talk about master in Maine
but I just have the master branch.
So git push origin master, just one simple commits.
If I refresh, we see chickens.txt is here
and we have our one commit.
Just one.
Add my first two chickens.
That's all the history we have on this branch.
So that's just another way
of connecting a local repo to a GitHub repo.
Different approach.
But then the same workflow
once we have that connection established,
do some work, add commit, and then use push.
Okay

--- Main & Master: Github Default Branches ---

Instructor: The last thing we'll talk about here is
in 2020, I've mentioned this a few times, GitHub decided
to rename the default branch from master to main.
Now we've seen that that doesn't really impact us, right?
We've been able to just push up a master branch
and it's defaulting here to showing us master.
If I just go to this repo, we see master.
However, I do wanna talk about it.
If we make a brand new repository,
we'll just call this, how about colors?
All right, here's our repo called colors.
There it is, colors.
And I'm gonna create this repository
and maybe this time I'm gonna initialize it with something.
So we will learn about readmes
but I'm just gonna click this box.
And notice it tells me something different now, right?
It says this will set main as the default branch.
If I get rid of that, it doesn't say anything about main
because there is no branch.
So when I create this repo as is with no readme,
just completely empty,
there is no branch that is initialized.
But as soon as I add a file to GitHub,
when I'm initializing this repository is what I mean,
it automatically needs to have a branch, right?
You can't have files in a Git repo that are tracked
and committed if they're not associated with some branch.
So it defaults that branch name to main.
So we could change that
in our settings so that it always defaults to master.
But you know, more and more people are using main anyway.
And that's kind of the push
that GitHub is working towards here.
So if we do this,
I create this repository, now it has a file in it.
It has a commit, initial commit,
that was made for me, right?
I didn't say commit-m or anything like that.
It just made me this readme file
which is something we'll learn more about
in future sections.
So for now it's just a file.
And I'm on the main branch.
So in order to get this branch down to my machine, right?
In order to work with it, I can clone this repository.
So I'll copy that and then I'll go over here
and make sure I'm not in a repo.
Git clone, that URL.
Okay? And then we have this colors repo, right?
And if you look at the branch we're currently on, it's main.
So this makes it easy.
If we wanna work on the main branch,
we just clone it and we have the main branch.
But something that you may encounter is some companies
or some projects may want to rename their branch
from master to main.
To be in accordance with these,
they're not rules by any means from GitHub,
but this new decision by GitHub.
So to do that, if you've been working on the master branch
and you want to rename it to main,
it's just like renaming any other branch.
So you can actually see instructions.
If you make a new repository, I'm gonna delete this,
but if we make a new repository, it shows us,
as we've talked about a couple of times,
what to do right?
It gives you instructions.
If you wanna wanna push an existing repository,
add a remote and then this line renames the branch
you're currently on to be main.
Or, here's another version of this.
If you don't have a repository yet,
make a new repo, get an git init,
add some stuff to it, commit, rename the branch to main,
and then push your branch called main up.
So I'll do this with our chickens demo.
I have this master branch, but if I wanna rename it
to main, whoopsies, I need to go to that repository.
Geez, I can't type, back outta here.
Cd into chickens, right?
We have one branch, which is master.
If I do git branch-M, main,
that renames my branch to main.
So now there is no master branch, right?
We just have main.
Remember, there is no significance
to the master branch name itself
or to the master branch period.
It's just that you have to be working on a branch in Git.
And by default, the the default branch name is master
if you're working on Git on your machine.
But on GitHub, the default branch name
if you clone a new repo
that you have not created a branch on
but GitHub has made a branch, it will default to main.
So don't get worried, don't freak out
if you don't see master, right?
It's this exact same concept, it's just a branch.
And GitHub made this decision recently
to make main that default name.
So now I could push this branch up git push origin main.
And if we head over here, if I refresh,
we still see the master branch, right?
But now we see main.
So there's main.
You'll see though
that master is considered the default branch here.
That is because we pushed up master first.
There was no main branch.
And so GitHub doesn't ignore a master branch.
I can change with the default branch is on this project,
but really you probably would not have main
and master in the same project.
What you would have is either a brand new empty project,
you clone it down
and you start on the main branch,
or you work on a project with your company or some,
you know, some team
and they decide we're not gonna use the term master anymore.
We will rename to main
and then you can make main the default.
I believe you go into settings, and then we have branches.
And then I can decide
that the default branch is actually main.
And so now I've updated my project so that it defaults
to showing me main when I visit my repository.
So keep in mind through all of this, if you're confused,
it's just a name.
Master is just a name for a branch
and main is just a name for a branch.
The only complication comes if you have been working
on one branch called master, and you change that name.
If you change it locally, then you need to push up
that new branch name to GitHub, and then
if you care about what your default branch is on GitHub,
you need to change that.
But this is not, you know, some seismic shift.
It's just a branch name that you can change
and you'll likely see more
and more people using main rather than master
though master is still incredibly common
and it's still the default branch name on Git.

--- Github Basics Exercise ---

Instructor: All right, so now it's time
to get some practice on your own
with the GitHub basics, creating GitHub repositories,
setting up remotes, pushing, that sort of thing.
So, nothing crazy here, but really the bread and butter
of working with GitHub is just getting your code
up on GitHub, and then as we'll soon see, getting code down,
pulling down from GitHub, which we haven't yet learned.
Anyway, as always, for these exercises
you can find the link to get to these instructions
as a resource with this video.
So, I recommend you open that up and probably, like always,
just pause this video and read the instructions.
If you have questions, come back to this video.
So, the core idea here is that you're going
to make a new repository locally on your computer.
Then you'll go to GitHub and make a GitHub repository,
and then you'll connect the two.
Then after that you'll make a file
called favorites.txt, an empty file.
You'll save and you'll make your first commit.
Now, this part is optional
if you want to go with main instead of master.
I'm gonna be using main just to be consistent in this file,
but if you choose to stay with master
then just sub that in wherever you see main.
So, you'll make a new file, favorites.txt, leave it empty,
make your first commit on the main branch.
Then push up that main branch to GitHub,
so make sure that you see your empty file on GitHub.
Then the next bit is to make two branches, a foods branch
and a movies branch, both based on the main branch.
Then switch to the foods branch,
add three or more of your favorite foods to the file,
add and commit your changes.
Then switch to the movies branch,
add three or more of your favorite movies
to the favorites file, add and commit your changes.
Then push up your foods branch to GitHub,
and make sure you see it on GitHub if you refresh the page.
And then do the same thing for the movies branch,
push up the movies branch.
And then we get to this step
where I'd like you to merge the foods branch,
let me fix the highlighting.
Okay, there we go.
So, you'll merge the foods branch into the main branch,
and then you'll merge the movies branch
into the main branch.
So, you should now have, after this step,
a favorites file that contains both your favorites movies,
both your favorite movies
and your favorite foods in the same file, favorites.txt,
on the main branch.
So, now the main branch has changed,
GitHub doesn't have that.
So, push up the latest work from that main branch,
push it up to GitHub.
So, that's the basic steps, right?
Make a repo, go on GitHub, make a repo, connect the two.
Then push up your first little commit on the main branch,
make two branches, do some work on both of them,
push each of them up individually,
and then merge those branches locally
into the main branch and push the main branch up again.
So, please give it a shot on your own
unless you are very comfortable with GitHub.
I don't know why you'd be watching this video anyway,
but I know it's not the most exciting possible.
I mean, none of these exercises
are gonna knock your socks off,
but very important basic workflow.
So, I'll go ahead and do it.
I'll make a new repository locally on my machine.
Let's do it in a folder.
I'll call this Favorites.
I'll cd into it, and check that I'm not in a repo.
I'll init, a new repo.
Okay, and then I'll go ahead
and make my new GitHub repository,
so go to github.com, click the plus, New repository,
and I'll just call this one gh-favorites-exercise.
Name it whatever you'd like.
I'll keep it public.
If you wanna take a look,
there's not really gonna be much to look at,
but you're welcome to.
And then I'm gonna create it.
And then the next step is to connect my local repo
to the GitHub repo, which really just means add this remote.
So, I'm gonna add that remote.
And then optionally rename my master branch to main,
we can just copy that.
Assuming that we're on the master branch,
or in this case we're not even on a branch yet,
so I will need to make that master branch
or I will need to do some work, but then I can rename it.
So, as you can see, I'm not even on a branch yet.
I don't have any commits, so there's no branch reference.
But I'll just save that line for just a moment
because next we're going to make
a new file called favorites.txt.
We'll leave it empty and make our first commit.
So, touch favorites.txt, then we'll add it,
so git add favorites.
And we'll commit, just do something like
add empty favorites file.
Okay, so now we see master there,
and I'm gonna rename that to main, right?
So, I type git status, we see on branch main.
If I type git branch
we don't have the master branch anymore.
So, if you want to go with main that's how you do it.
Next, we need to push up this main branch to GitHub.
Right now nothing is up here, it's just empty.
So, git push origin, that's the name of our remote.
And you can always check, git remote -v,
it is origin if you just copied and pasted from GitHub.
So, git push origin, and then main is my branch.
And if I refresh here we should see that empty file,
and there it is.
Okay, so next step we need to create two branches,
foods and movies.
So, git branch foods, git branch movies,
or I could do git switch -c or git checkout -b.
I can switch to one of them,
so I'm gonna switch to foods, if I can spell that.
And then add two, or what'd I say,
three of my favorite foods to the favorites file.
So, let me open this file.
And what are my favorite foods?
I did not think through this at all.
Well, one of them would have to be peppermint ice cream.
Not just mint chip, it has to be peppermint ice cream.
It's not that common anymore.
I used to have it around Christmas as a kid.
What else?
Man, I'm gonna sound like such a fatty
if I just say my honest favorites (laughs), soft pretzels.
Oh, I love soft pretzels.
And then I feel like I need to just lie.
How about celery?
Yeah, I just love celery.
All right, so now I need to add and commit this
on the foods branch.
So, git add favorites, git commit -m
add favorite foods, not doods.
And then that's it.
I could skip ahead and just push it up,
but I'm gonna now switch to the movies branch.
Git switch to movies and add three
of my favorite movies in here.
If you've seen any of my other courses you probably know,
or at least maybe you might remember
my favorite movie is "Amadeus."
I think I say that far too often in my courses.
Great film, you gotta watch it if you haven't seen it.
And if you don't like it I get it, it's not for everyone.
But anyway, how about "The Fifth Element,"
that's another one I like.
Not necessarily, this is not top three movies, not in order.
It doesn't matter, okay?
It doesn't matter at all.
What else?
Hmm, here's a fun one I liked quite a bit,
"Captain Fantastic," Viggo Mortensen.
Sure, we'll say those are my favorites, not quite.
"Amadeus" though, yeah, always number one.
Okay, so now I'm gonna add those changes, git add favorites,
git commit add three of my fav movies.
Okay, and then we get to this step,
push up the foods branch to GitHub.
So, I can just do git push, my remote origin,
and then the name of the branch, foods.
I don't need to be on the foods branch,
and I'll refresh and we should see a new branch.
There it is.
And we wanna verify we see our foods,
whatever you put they show up here, right?
And I'm, currently I was looking at that file,
so that's why I saw this view.
You'd probably see this.
Okay, now push up the movies branch,
git push origin movies, and refresh.
Okay, we see the movies branch, and there we are.
We see favorites and it has my favorite,
or some of my favorite movies.
Then finally, merge the food branch into the main branch.
So, I'm gonna switch to main,
and then I'll just show you my favorites file
is empty right now.
And I'm gonna merge in foods, so git merge foods,
and that's just a fast forward.
Okay, that's the easy part.
Then I need to merge the movies branch into main.
Now, this won't be a fast forward
because now there's commits on the main branch
that the movies branch does not have.
So, git merge and then movies, and we get a lovely conflict.
I'm just gonna select Accept Both Changes,
and there we go.
We'll just leave it like this.
I could put a little heading I guess if I wanted
that said movies here, meh, I'll just leave it like that.
Anyway, I'm gonna resolve the conflict like I just did.
I'm gonna add favorites, and then I'll make my commit here.
What should I do?
Let's just clear.
Git commit, merge movies and foods into main, okay?
And then finally I need to push that up, right?
So, I don't have that latest commit
on the main branch on GitHub.
If I go to it it's just an empty file, very sad.
Now, it's just as simple as git push,
now I didn't use -u in the previous,
when I first pushed the first time.
So, I still need to say origin main.
If I had used -u I could just say git push.
So, actually it might just figure it out on its own,
no it does not.
Okay, so git push origin main.
And if you have questions about that -u
there's a standalone video I made on it
so you could go check that out,
but you probably already know that.
Okay, and there we are.
So, we see that we have this new commit one minute ago,
less than that, where we merged movies and foods into main.
And on main we see all three on GitHub.
Foods just has the foods,
and movies just has the movies.
Okay, I need to take a break and watch one of these,
that would be nice, with some peppermint ice cream
and pretzels and not celery.
I don't like celery at all really, bye-bye.

--- Remote Tracking Branches: What Are They? ---

Instructor: So this section is focused
on getting code down from GitHub to our machine.
And this is really important when we're collaborating
with others because those other people
will be changing our repositories,
making new commits, pushing those up.
How do we get those down?
So before we talk about the different commands,
git fetch and git pull,
we have to understand a little bit more
about how cloning a repo works and how remotes work.
So when we clone a repository, whatever the repository is
whether it's one I made or I'm cloning React
or some really popular open source repository
what happens is that, you know
we have at the very beginning nothing on my machine.
We have the GitHub repository.
Let's just say it's three commits, one branch
the master branch.
When I clone that, of course git clone this URL
I end up with the three commits,
all files from the repository.
We have a git repo, right?
We didn't have one before, now we do.
And I have the master branch
but there's actually two branch references here
and we've only talked about one.
So there is the standard master branch reference,
a regular old branch reference.
And I should mention, you know, this uses master
but whatever the default branch is,
when we clone, that's what we end up with.
So whether it's main or master or trunk or purple chicken,
it doesn't matter.
Whatever that GitHub repo has as its default branch
that's what we're gonna start with when we clone.
Okay, so in this diagram, it's master.
We have our regular branch reference
and that acts like any other branch reference.
If we add new commits, it will move.
But then there's this other thing, origin slash master.
This is something called a remote tracking branch reference.
It sounds complicated, but basically it's just a pointer
in the same way that this is a pointer
but this pointer does not move, or I don't move it myself.
It's pointing back to the last known commit
on the master branch from the origin remote.
So in other words, wherever this is pointing,
just like any other branch reference,
I like to visualize them as a repo,
as a big book with a bunch of bookmarks in there.
So these two bookmarks will start at the same spot
but they might diverge as I do more work
and make commits on the master branch locally.
So to reiterate this term remote tracking branch,
think of it as the bookmark or a pointer
that remembers at the last time you communicated
with this remote repo.
Here is where the master branch or the main branch
or the purple branch was pointing
on that GitHub repo on origin.
So they followed this pattern remote slash branch name.
So Git names them for us.
As we talked about, origin is a very common remote name.
So we've got origin master
but that might as well be origin, eggplant or upstream.
That's another common remote name that we'll talk about.
And then Logo Design, that might be a branch.
It could be any remote name slash a branch.
But just as the example, if we clone a repo,
by default when we clone,
the remote name will be set to origin
and whatever that default branch name
in this case master will give us origin master.
So we can actually view these remote tracking branches.
If we use git branch with dash R
we can see that branch reference.
So I'm gonna show you that now.
So I'll make a new repository
once again just to demonstrate this.
I'll call this animals and I'll make it public.
I won't add any files
so I'll just have this Animals repository
and I'm gonna do something slightly different
that we haven't seen before.
I'm actually gonna create a new file on GitHub
so that when I clone it, I get some information
along with, you know, the initial state of my repo.
I'll actually have some files
so I can make changes and make commits on GitHub.
So my Animals project, I'll have a file called pets.txt.
And then in here, I'm just gonna keep it really simple.
I'll add some of my pets over the years.
I've got Rusty and Blue, I've got a cat named Scout.
She also goes by the name of Rocket
and I've got some chickens.
Okay, so whatever I have in this file
I then need to make a commit
just like I would locally on my machine.
I'll just leave it as the default here.
Create pets.txt, we make that commit, great.
And now we have a file in my repository
and we have one commit.
And remember in GitHub, on GitHub
the default branch name is main.
If I don't push up a branch first
if I don't rename it, we'll go with main.
Okay, so I'm gonna clone this now.
I'll copy this URL like we've done before.
And then I have a new empty folder.
So you can see on my computer
I'm not in a repo and I'm gonna clone.
So git clone that animals URL.
So we now have this animals directory
and if I type git branch, we have one branch main.
But as we talked about when I clone something
we automatically get this remote, right?
Get remote dash V, it's called origin.
And then the one branch we have is called main.
But Git sets up a remote tracking branch
for this main branch on origin.
It's this little reminder here
in this case origin master, but in our case, origin main.
But it's a remote tracking branch
a bookmark that holds the spot.
The most recently known state
of the master branch on origin,
or in our case of the main branch on origin.
So right now, if I take a look, remember I can do this.
Git branch dash R, I can see this origin slash main.
So the main branch on origin
that is the remote tracking branch.
So currently if we were to diagram this
we have two branch references pointing at the same commit
because I just cloned.
But in the next video we'll see
that we can get them to diverge
and we can check one out and see the differences.

--- Checking Out Remote Tracking Branches ---

Instructor: All right so imagine,
we have this hypothetical repo
with three commits that we cloned
and there's a master branch,
and them, of course,
we have this remote tracking branch we talked about
that says this is the last known spot that we know of
for origin slash master,
the master branch on the origin GitHub repo.
Anyway, I do some more work.
What happens if I'm on the master branch I make new commits?
That master pointer updates
just like it always has when we've made branches
and worked on branches and made new commits.
That branch reference moves,
it refers to the latest commit on that branch.
So I might have two new commits
and you'll see the remote branch reference doesn't update,
it doesn't move, that's the point.
It stays at the last known spot for origin/master.
This is just master.
Origin/master is the master branch on origin,
whatever that GitHub repo is.
So let's demonstrate this.
Let's make on this animals project, right?
I've got my main branch,
and again, instead of master, it's main this time.
On this main branch,
I'll go ahead and make some changes.
I'll make a new commit.
So we've got this pets file.
Here it is.
I'll make a change or two.
Why don't I add my two childhood cats
that are no longer with us.
Let's see, we had Monty and Mocha,
and then I'll add and commit.
So git add pets, git commit -m
"add childhood cats,"
all right, so now we have two commits just locally
on the main branch and if I type git status,
we'll see something we haven't really looked at
or talked about before.
This right here, your branch is ahead
of origin slash main by one commit.
In other words, your main branch and origin/main
were pointing at the exact same thing
just like this except master.
But anyway, your main branch and origin/main were pointing
to the same commit but then you made a new commit,
and so now you are one commit ahead
of where origin/main left off.
That's exactly what it's telling me.
So if I do this again, I make another change.
We had a tree frog as a kid named George the Frog,
what was he?
A red-eyed tree frog I think is what they were called.
Really cool looking but not very friendly pets.
Anyway, George the Frog, I'm gonna add him.
git add pets, git commit
"add George the frog."
All right, so now I type git status once again.
Now we see your main branch, which is what I'm on,
right on branch main is ahead of origin slash main
by two commits now, so in other words,
we're at this point where there are now two commits
that master has since the last known spot
of origin/master or in our case origin/main.
Anyway, they have diverged and that's fine
that's totally normal, right?
That's the point of this tracking reference.
This remote tracking reference is so that you know
how far ahead you are
and it will update when we get new updates
from the GitHub repo, right?
We can change this,
we can go ask to make sure are there new commits,
am I missing stuff?
And this might move somewhere,
but anyway, we haven't gotten to that yet.
That's where fetching and pulling come in.
But what I wanna show you is that if you wanted to
if you were ahead of origin/master
or origin/main or whatever it is, like we are,
we can still take a look at origin/master or origin/main.
We can check it out.
So imagine this is our scenario and we we wonder, hmm,
what did this project look like
when I first cloned this repository,
or when I last got an update from origin.
If you want to know, you can check out origin/master.
So you will go into detached HEAD,
just like anytime we've done this
before checking out a commits,
don't panic, don't freak out.
So let me show this.
I'm gonna go back here.
We are ahead of origin/main by two commits.
This is what it looks like right now
when we have these two new commits, right?
These are new lines.
I type git log,
three total commits.
So if I go back, git checkout,
and remember I can always see
that remote tracking branch right there, origin/main.
git checkout origin/main,
okay, we're in detached HEAD,
you can look around, blah, blah, blah.
Here we are.
This is what it looked like.
This is that reference that bookmark to origin/main
from the last time we communicated with GitHub,
this is what we had for the main branch.
So I've moved ahead by two commits.
If I wanted to work from here, just like any time
that we've been in detached HEAD,
I can make a new branch and start working,
or I can undo, I go back to main,
if I just want to, you know, I'm done.
I just wanted to poke around and see what it looks like.
But this is just to show you really as an illustration
of the fact that this is a reference to where we were,
where the main branch was last time we communicated
with GitHub and now I can go back just
to the actual main branch, get switch main,
and this is where we are now, right?
On my local machine.
So now of course if I want these two commits
that I have that aren't on GitHub,
if I want them up on GitHub,
it's as simple as pushing them, right?
git push origin master.
Nope, origin main,
old habits die hard.
There we go, git push origin main,
refresh,
and we see we now have our new commit here,
add George the Frog,
I can take a look at pets.txt.
Okay, so we have Monty, Mocha, and George the Frog,
and if I look at all the commits on this repository,
just go back, three total commits now.
The original one and then two that we just pushed.
And now if I type git status,
we're no longer two commits ahead.
It says your branch is up to date with origin/main.
We just communicated with that GitHub repository
that remote repo called origin,
and now our local repo knows what origin/main looks like.
It has a new version of that pointer, right?
It's pointing at the same commit that main is pointing at.
But if I make new commits on main
then of course they diverge.
So I'll do that one more time.
I'm not gonna show you anything new,
I'm just gonna repeat the process.
Let's see, another pet that I had as a kid,
oh my trusty dog Wyatt passed away a couple years ago.
So we'll add him,
git add .
git commit -m add Wyatt, rest in piece.
Okay, I type git status,
and now I'm ahead of origin/main by one commit, right?
So if I check out origin/main,
git checkout origin/ main,
we see why it is gone.
This is what the file looked like,
this is what the repo looked
like the last time we communicated with origin,
which was just a couple seconds
or maybe a minute ago when we pushed.
So this is what it looked like if I go back
which I can also do with git switch dash.
We now see that we're ahead of origin/main by one commit.
So now I can push that up to git push origin main,
and when that finishes,
we see we're now up to date with origin/main,
and if I refresh, we should see a fourth commit.
There it is.
All right, so I'll stop there.

--- Working With Remote Branches ---

Instructor: So now that we've talked about
remote tracking branch references, quite a mouthful there.
Let's talk about working with remote branches.
So for example, if we have a repo that we clone
or that we wanna work with that has multiple branches
on GitHub, how do we work with those branches locally?
Let me demonstrate what I'm referring to.
I'm gonna go to this repository I've made
called Remote Branches Demo.
You can find the link along with this video.
I recommend you try this.
So on the main branch, the default branch,
we have two files.
Cactus, with a nice cactus, ASCII art
and Rose with Rose ASCII art.
But there are four total branches.
And when I clone this repository, I'll copy that URL.
I'll go to my local machine, we'll zoom, zoom,
we'll back out, sure.
And to here, not a repo, git clone.
And then this URL.
Alright, so we now have this remote branches demo
and if I type git status, I'm on the main branch.
That's the default branch as we've seen.
If instead the default was master,
that's the branch I end up with.
Whatever the default branch is when I clone,
that's what I get.
So what about these other branches?
Do I have them here?
Git branch.
No, I only have the main branch.
So how do I work on, for example,
the food branch where we have banana and popsicle?
Or how do I work on the movies branch
where we have "Ghostbusters" and "Bambi"?
Well, it's actually not bad at all.
I'll demonstrate it here.
So in our example on these slides,
we have a master branch that's the default
and a puppies branch.
Both of these are on GitHub.
So when I clone that project,
I get all the history, all the data, but that does not mean
that it's all in my workspace at once.
So as we saw, when I typed git branch,
we only saw main or in this example, master
I don't see all these other branches.
Just main.
So what exactly is going on?
Well if we look at the remote branches, remember the -r,
it's a very different outcome.
git branch -r, and we see every one of those branches.
origin/fantasy, origin/food, main and movies.
So my local repo, it knows about all of those branches
and it has a remote tracking reference
where it can tell me where each one of those is.
Remember, they're just like a bookmark
that says this is where fantasy is this is food,
this is main.
So we know about them here, my repo knows them
but I don't see full fledged branches for them.
So how do I make that happen?
Well, we need to talk a little bit about the relationship
between a full-fledged branch and a remote tracking branch.
By default, when we clone a repository,
let's say in this diagram,
it's a master branch that we end up with.
That master branch is automatically tracking, it's connected
to the remote branch origin/master.
They're both master, they have the same name.
So that's the default behavior.
I didn't make that happen.
Every time we've cloned something,
in our case it's main, on the main branch
that we're currently on, whoops.
We see this sort of message.
"Up to date with origin/main."
I did not make that connection myself.
I didn't say, "Okay, Git, there's a main branch here
and I want it to be connected to origin/main."
That just happened.
So we have these other branches that are remote.
origin slash, in our case,
it's what movies origin/food, origin/fantasy.
In this example, origin/puppies.
So how do I make a branch here that is connected
to origin/puppies?
I wanna work on that.
So I could check out one of those branches.
Check out origin/puppies
or check out origin/ whatever we have.
Let's just take a look.
Let's do origin/food.
So I can do that.
Check out origin/food.
Well I'm a liar, we can't do that.
We need git checkout origin/food
and now we're in detached head.
But you can see banana.txt and popsicle
and there they are in their glory.
We've got banana and popsicle
so I'm able to check those out,
but I'm in detached head.
It's not the same thing.
It's what we talked about here,
what I want is a branch that I can work on
that is connected to origin/puppies.
Rather than just checking out the remote branch,
I want to actually have my own branch here
that is connected to it.
So the way we do this is actually super easy.
Thanks to the new git switch command.
We just switch to a branch with that exact same name.
So if Git detects that we make a branch called puppies
and there is already a remote branch called puppies,
it's going to just assume that we want them connected.
So we can change that and we could have a branch
called puppies that actually is tracking a branch
called origin/cats.
We can do that ourself, but by default,
we usually want them to be the same.
When I do git switch puppies, git will make me
a local puppies branch and it will automatically set it up
to track the remote branch origin/puppies.
So I end up with my own branch puppies and it's pointing
or it's connected to origin/puppies in the same way
that master is connected to origin/master
or in the same way that main is connected to origin/main.
So if I go back to main, as we've seen before,
automatically connected.
If I now switch to one of these branches,
one of these remote branches that I don't have like movies,
if I switch to movies, which again,
we don't have that branch
and normally, if I try and switch to a branch
that doesn't exist here, we get this.
Invalid reference.
I can't just do git switch plants.
There is no branch called plants.
But if I do git switch movies, take a look at that.
I now have a branch called movies,
set up to track remote branch movies from origin
and it switched me over.
So now I'm on the movies branch and if I type git branch,
we actually have movies in main.
And if I take a look here, we've got "Bambi."
Hello, Bambi. So cute.
And "Ghostbusters."
Type git status and you'll see,
"Your branch is up to date with origin/movies."
So we're now connected.
This branch movies is referencing
its tracking origin/movies.
So the old way of doing this
just so you know before git switch, it looked like this.
It was slightly harder to remember and definitely clunkier.
So git switch simplifies this a lot.
If you wanna work on a branch
that is on a GitHub repo, you don't have it locally,
you just use git switch and then the name of the branch.
So super simple.
Let's try one more example.
So I can view all those remote branches.
git remote, no, what am I doing?
git branch -r, let's go to the fantasy branch.
I could check it out right
and just go into detached head and take a look.
Or I can make my own branch here
that is tracking origin/fantasy
and that's what I'm gonna do, git switch fantasy.
Branch fantasy set up to track
remote branch fantasy from origin.
I'm on this branch fantasy now,
I have three branches locally
and over here, we see centaur and dragon.
So let's make a change.
I'm gonna add a new file in here.
How about on this fantasy branch touch phoenix.txt?
And I have a phoenix that I've copied
from a free ASCII art website.
Okay, so I'll add that.
git add phoenix, git commit, add phoenix.txt.
Alright, so what will I see when I type git status?
Well, my fantasy branch is now ahead
of origin/fantasy by one commit.
Just like in the previous video,
we had our main branch ahead of origin/main.
So that means I have work on this machine.
I have one commit on the fantasy branch that I can push up.
So just like any other branch, git push
and then the remote origin,
and then the branch we wanna push
and if I wanna push my new phoenix commit,
it's on the fantasy branch.
So that's the branch I'll push up.
And then if I head back to GitHub
and I switch to our fantasy branch,
we now have phoenix showing up.
Alright, so what I wanted to show in this video
is that if we use the git switch command
and then a name of a branch that may not exist locally yet
but is a remote branch, if we use the correct matching name,
Git will make us that branch locally
and set it up automatically to track the remote branch
with the same name.
So that's really, really useful and very common.
If somebody tells you,
"Hey, I just pushed up a new branch called Bug Fix
or Help me code, I'm stuck."
Well I don't have that on my machine.
I can easily get it by using git switch.
Okay, so in the next video,
we're now gonna talk about a new command called fetch.

--- Git Fetch: The Basics ---

Instructor: So now we're gonna start talking
about fetching and pulling.
So I'm gonna start with a hypothetical.
Here's some diagrams.
Once again, we have a local repository,
and then we have a corresponding GitHub repo,
and currently, let's say I just clone down the local repo.
I'm entirely up to date with whatever is on GitHub, right?
I have the master branch pointer and origin/master,
both referring to this latest commit,
but I go on to do some more work,
and as we saw previously, they now have diverged.
I have a commit that the GitHub repo,
the origin repo, does not have.
But I'm also working with some collaborators,
and in the meantime, while I was working
on this yellow commit, whatever that is,
those collaborators, let's just say one person,
Bob Head added three new commits
that you can see up there in green.
So those are on GitHub.
They're on the master branch.
Let's say there's just one branch.
So the master branch, they're on GitHub.
I don't have them locally.
I do have my new commit,
but I don't have those new commits coming from Bob Head.
So how do I get those changes?
This is where the two commands we're gonna discuss,
fetching and pulling, or git fetch, git pull,
this is where they come into play.
So here's a diagram that I've put together.
It's based on some really common diagrams that you'll see
where we have different locations.
They're not really physical locations,
but we've got our working directory, our workspace,
we've got the staging area,
we've got our actual local Git repository.
So something like git add, hopefully by now we know,
will stage changes, right?
git add will stage a change, puts it in the staging area,
and then git commit takes whatever is in the staging area
and then creates a new commit in the actual .git folder,
the real local repository.
And then we saw that git push will take commits
from a local repo and push them up to a remote repo,
like GitHub, or a GitHub repo, rather.
So git fetch and git pull down here
both go the other direction.
There are two commands that we can use
to get changes, new commits, from a remote repository,
from GitHub in our example.
So we're gonna start with git fetch.
Fetching is going to take remote changes,
so stuff coming from a GitHub repo,
and bring them down to the local repository,
not into our working directory.
So that is what git pull does.
I will illustrate the difference.
It can seem a little confusing at first.
Fetching allows us to download changes from a remote repo,
but those changes are not integrated into our working files.
So it's a way of kind of fetching the latest changes
and having access to them on your machine,
but without having to merge them
into our actual local working directory,
without having to mess up our files.
So think of it as this last paragraph.
Please go and get the latest information from GitHub,
but don't screw up what I'm currently working on.
So we'll have access to it using this git fetch command.
So we specify git fetch, and then a remote.
The default is origin, so you could just do git fetch,
but if you do git fetch origin,
it's going to fetch from the origin.
If you have multiple remotes, which eventually we may,
well, eventually in this course, we will,
it will fetch from whatever that remote is.
Git will basically request origin and say,
"Hey, origin, is there any changes on this GitHub repo?
If so, I want them."
We can also specifically just fetch one branch.
So git fetch origin master, or origin bugfix,
or whatever the branch is.
So here's the same situation from before, right?
We have this GitHub repo and a local repo.
I'm working on it.
I have a new commit in yellow,
and then my friend, Bob Head, I think is what I said,
added three commits to GitHub.
He pushed them up. I don't have them.
So if I don't wanna screw up my local working directory
but I want access to those changes,
I can fetch that branch, origin master,
or I can just do git fetch and get everything from origin,
and what will happen is that origin master,
remember these remote branch references, that will update.
So I have access, I can look at origin/master
to see where is it, what's going on,
what do the files look like?
I can check it out,
but my master branch has not changed in any way.
That's exactly what this slide says.
I got ahead of myself.
I now have these changes on my machine,
and if I want to see them, I can go checkout origin/master,
but my master branch is completely untouched.
So basically, I've downloaded the changes,
but I have not integrated them into my working directory,
onto any branch that I'm working on.
So if I lost internet, I would still have access
to all of the work as of this moment in time
that I fetched, right?
I don't need the internet to go look at this stuff.
It's on my computer.
It's just not in my working directory.
So that's why, in this diagram,
we've got fetch going from the remote repository,
fetching changes down to our local repo,
but not into the workspace.
So in the next video, I'm gonna demonstrate this,
but for now, all that you should know,
or the recap, really, the main takeaway,
is that fetching allows us to get changes
from some remote repo
without actually integrating those changes
into our working files.
So we can go take a look, see what changed,
what's new on origin or on any other remote,
and we could specify if we only wanna fetch one branch
from a given remote.
Otherwise, it's gonna fetch all branches.
So in the next video, I'm gonna demonstrate this.

--- Demonstrating Git Fetch ---

Instructor: All right, so I'd like to demonstrate
using "Git Fetch."
And in order to do that,
I need to have some changes on a GitHub repo
that I don't have locally.
Normally, this would come from collaborators, right,
from other people I'm working with,
who are pushing their own changes up.
But right now, if it's just me, I kind of need to fake that,
or at least change the GitHub repo in another way.
And I can do that.
You can make any GitHub repo
and manually add files and edit files.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
I'm gonna go on GitHub.
So first of all, I'm working on this "remote-branches-demo"
where I've got the ASCII art.
So I've got the fantasy branch, we added that phoenix into,
and then I've got what, four other, three other branches.
Let's go to the food branch,
and I'm gonna create a new file on GitHub.
I won't have this on my machine,
so I can "create new file."
And then I'm using this ASCII Art website.
I'm just gonna take this apple and paste it in here.
So if you're following along or doing something similar,
you can edit any file on GitHub,
assuming it's in a repo you own.
And when you do that, as you can see here,
it's gonna generate a commit.
And I also need to come up with a name for the file.
So I'll do "apple.txt,"
and then I'll create it on the food branch.
I could create a new branch, I'm not gonna do that.
I'm adding this to the food branch.
Okay, so now it shows just like any other commit.
I have a new file, "create apple.txt."
It's showing up right here.
I'm gonna switch now to a different branch.
How about to the movies branch?
And I'll copy this Tinkerbell ASCII Art,
and put that in a file on the movies branch
called Tinkerbell.
"tinkerbell.txt," and I'll paste that in,
and I'll commit again to make a new file
on the movies branch.
So all of this that I've done so far,
it has nothing to do with fetching,
we're just updating the repo
so that now we have stuff on GitHub
that I don't have present on my local machine.
And again, normally the way this would happen
is that somebody pushes up changes
from their own local repo, if I had collaborators.
All right, so now we have three files on movies,
and we have three files in food.
Locally, let's start with the movies branch.
If I go to the movies branch here,
so just make sure I don't have any changes here.
"git switch" to "movies."
All right? I just have two files, right?
If I type "git status," it says I'm up to date
with origin/movies.
But that just means I'm up to date
with what my local repo knows origin/movies was,
not what it exactly is at this one moment in time,
because it can change.
My repo is not constantly asking, "Hey, is there new stuff?
"Is there new stuff from GitHub?"
I have to do that.
I have to tell it, "Go fetch changes, go fetch the latest."
So, that's what I wanna do right now.
I want to get the changes.
Let's say my friend told me, what'd I say his name was?
Bob Head? Yeah, Bob Head told me,
"Colta just added to the movies branch.
"Go fetch the changes, you need them."
So "git fetch,"
and then I can specify origin to get all changes,
or I can specify one branch, like movies.
Normally I just do "git fetch origin"
or just even "git fetch" because it will default to origin.
But if you only want to fetch one branch
then you can specify.
So I'm gonna do a "git fetch,"
(keys tapping)
and I'll do "origin," just to be clearer.
We only have one remote, but here we go.
"git fetch origin."
Okay, doesn't seem like a whole lot happened, right?
Well let's type "git status" now.
Now I see a completely different message.
It says, "Your branch is behind 'origin/movies'
"by 1 commit."
So we can tell origin/movies, that remote branch reference,
has been updated.
It's the equivalent with different branch names
of what we saw here
where we had master.
origin/master was updated when we fetched
to point to something new,
but my branch itself is unchanged.
So same idea, but swap in movies.
My movies branch is here,
and origin/movies is pointing at a new commit.
So if I go back, let's take a look at our files.
Just two files in my working directory.
I don't have that new work.
If I type "git log," I don't see that new commit either.
Nothing has changed in my working directory.
However, origin/movies is now pointing to something new.
It's pointing to a new commit,
and I can take a look at that.
I can do "git checkout origin/movies."
I just wanna take a peek.
What is the work that Bob Head did?
And now I enter detached HEAD.
And now I see, oh yeah, Tinkerbell is here, right?
Ghostbusters is here, Bambi.
But this is the new work.
Okay, and if I type "git log" here,
we see "Create tinkerbell," that was the most recent commit,
because we are looking at origin/movies.
So I could make a new branch from here if I wanted to.
But what I'm actually gonna show you next
is how we can use the "pull" command to help us out,
if we actually want to integrate these changes
into our working directory.
But for now fetch is just getting those changes from GitHub,
or any other remote repo,
and it brings them down to my machine.
It just doesn't integrate them.
So I can switch branches, too.
Let's make sure I get back out of detached HEAD.
So let's switch back to movies.
(keys tapping)
Okay, so I'm still behind origin/movies by one.
Now let's switch to, what was it, foods? No, food.
All right. And oh we didn't even have food
on my machine at this point, I hadn't actually worked on it.
So I just saw a message, I cleared it unfortunately.
But it said it set up the branch for me.
And if I take a look at what we have,
it's already up to date, it has that apple file.
So that's kind of a unique case
because I hadn't even bothered looking at this branch yet,
but because I switched to it for the very first time,
and I had just fetched,
it used the most recent information that it fetched.
From, remember we have these remote tracking branches.
Remember, "git branch -r." It used origin/food.
So I'm gonna make one more change.
Let's do another food.
So we'll go back to food here, and I'll add a new file,
and I guess I'll take this, is it tea, coffee,
whatever this is.
We'll put that, we'll call this, yeah, "coffee.txt."
So I'm making a new file on the food branch.
I'll commit.
Okay.
And now I'm gonna go back here,
and if I type "git status" on the food branch,
it thinks it's up to date.
It is up to date with what we have in origin/food.
But I can get more recent information,
more up-to-date information.
This time I'll just show fetching a particular branch.
It will work exactly the same way.
"git fetch origin food."
And what we see now is a decent chunk of output,
and if I type "git status" it tells me,
"Hey, you're on this branch called food,
"and it's behind origin/food By 1 commit."
Just a moment ago before I fetched, it was up to date.
Now it says you're behind by one.
So it tells me, "use git pull to update your branch."
That's a sneak peek at what we're gonna cover next.
But as you just saw,
"git fetch" got me the latest information
from that food branch,
and now we can take a look at it.
So if I inspect,
right, we're not looking at the latest version,
we're not looking at what we just fetched.
This is my working directory.
But now if I check it out, "origin/food."
Detached HEAD, and we see coffee is here, all right?
So that's a basic idea of fetching.
There are other things, you know,
that you would use fetch for.
It's not just about updating
the particular branch that you're on
and getting the latest.
Also, it might be that a new branch was created.
That's really common.
I can make a new branch here just as a demonstration.
I'll delete it, but I can make one called,
how about "morefood," okay?
Create that branch, I'm doing it on GitHub.
So I just made this branch.
It's only on GitHub.
I don't know about it here.
If I do "git branch -r,"
I don't see "morefood."
But as soon as I fetch, "git fetch,"
now, it says, "Oh, there's this thing, origin/morefood."
We know about it now.
So if I do "git branch -r" again, now I have "morefood."
It's exactly the same as my food branch,
I didn't change it in any way,
so we wouldn't see a difference.
But now my computer, my local repo, knows about it.
A moment ago, it didn't know about it until I fetched.
So using "fetch" gets you the latest information
about some remote repository.
It just doesn't automatically integrate those changes
into whatever you're working on.

--- Git Pull: The Basics ---

Instructor: Next up we're gonna talk about git pull.
So the git pull command is similar to fetch
in that we use it to retrieve changes
from some remote repo.
But the big difference is
that pull will actually update our HEAD branch.
It updates our working directory.
Whatever changes are retrieved or pulled down
from GitHub or some other remote repo
will be integrated into our local repo
and our working directory.
So think of it as,
okay git, go and download the latest commits from GitHub
and immediately update my working directory
with those changes.
You can kind of think of it as a git fetch plus a git merge.
So fetch in the sense that we are updating
the remote tracking branch
with the latest changes from some remote.
So go and get the latest changes from, you know,
origin master or origin main or origin food.
But then second step is take those changes
from the remote tracking branch
and merge them in
or update my current branch
that I'm on with those new changes.
So the syntax looks like this,
git pull,
and then a remote name and a branch name.
What really is important to understand is that where
we run git pull from matters.
So whatever branch I'm on,
that is where the changes will be merged
into where I'm pulling down to.
So for example,
if I am on the master branch
and I run git pull origin master
it's going to fetch the changes from origin master
and then merge them into my current branch,
which if I'm on master, then it's master.
So it fetches and then merges.
And just like any other merge,
that can sometimes result in merge conflicts.
So we need to resolve those just like a normal merge.
So I'll demonstrate that,
but why don't we start with something
that won't result in a merge conflict?
Alright, so let's use our movies branch.
I think I'm, yeah, I'm already on it.
We have this movies branch.
I did fetch in the previous video.
The most recent changes, right?
We have Tinkerbell, but it's not on our actual branch.
We just have it on the remote branch.
So we have origin/movies
but I don't have Tinkerbell here
in my working directory on the movies branch.
So if I want to get those changes from the movies branch
I can do git pull origin and then the name of the branch
I'm pulling movies and I wanna pull
down to the branch I'm on, which is movies.
So if you go to GitHub or this is gonna be hard
for you to do unless you're editing the repo yourself
and it'll have an exercise.
So you get practice
with this on the movies branch, we have Tinkerbell here.
I don't have that commit here.
So I'm gonna pull, and you can see it updates.
If I type git log, I have a new commit here.
So now my movies branch and origin movies
they're pointing to the exact same commit, right?
And if I type ls,
we see Tinkerbell right there and over here I see that file.
So I pulled that down and it was merged into this directory.
So I'll do one more demo, I'll update the fantasy branch,
I'll add another file just like this.
It's a cyclops, I'll call it cyclops.txt.
Again, this is on the fantasy branch.
We're simulating somebody pushing up changes,
some collaborator.
So now we have that cyclops file.
I don't have it locally.
I'm on the movies branch,
but I'm gonna switch to,
what did we call it?
Is it fantasy?
So if I wanna get the cyclops file
all I need to do is git pull and then origin fantasy.
Okay, let's take a look.
You can see it says create mode cyclops.
That means it created my cyclops file.
We see it here and over here we have access to it.
Alright, so that's really the the core mechanic of pulling.
What I'm gonna show you
in the next video is that merge conflicts can arise
and often do if you're working on something
that somebody else also pushed some changes to.
So that's coming up next.

--- Git Pull & Merge Conflicts ---

Instructor: So, as I've said a couple times,
pulls can result in conflicts.
It's not a horrible thing.
Just like any merge conflicts, we can resolve them.
But sometimes you might have some work locally
that is not on GitHub, and GitHub might have some commits
that you don't have locally.
So when you pull down, there may be conflicts.
For example, if we're working on the master branch
I've made this new change, a new commit in yellow
and at the same time my collaborator Bob Head
made three green commits and push them up to GitHub.
When I try and pull down, right,
I pull those new commits down, git pull origin master.
Just like when we're merging
sometimes we get a fast forward merge
and things go pretty smoothly.
Sometimes Git can figure out
how to merge things automatically
but sometimes there might be conflicts
if we're changing the same files
if there's, you know, conflicting changes.
So when that happens, if there are conflicts
then Git is going to ask us to resolve them
and figure it out and commit the changes.
So I'll demonstrate that,
I've set up well I have the food branch,
right on this food branch
I have this coffee file that I added.
We'll say that my friend added it
and pushed it up to GitHub.
I don't have it locally.
If I switch to food
I don't have coffee, right?
I have apple, banana, and popsicle.
And let's say that I decided, you know
I really wanna make a coffee file in here.
So I'm gonna make my own coffee, touch coffee.txt
and then I'm gonna open it up
and put some coffee askie art,
something different than what I have on GitHub.
Alright, so I paste this in just another Askie art coffee
and I'm gonna add and commit that, git add coffee
git commit-m, add my coffee art.
So now what I wanna do is share that change
that I've made and get it up on GitHub.
But as a good practice
before you ever push something up to GitHub
you wanna pull down and see if there's changes, right?
If there's anything that is gonna be problematic,
any conflicts.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
Git Pull Origin
and I want the latest changes from the food branch.
But remember I have a commit on here
that does not exist on GitHub.
And GitHub has a commit on the food branch
that does not exist on my machine.
So when I do that, oh no.
Who could have ever predicted this conflict
in coffee txt, automatic merge failed.
It doesn't know what to keep
fix the conflicts and then commit the results.
So this is what came from GitHub that our collaborator
whoever that was, Bob Head, added.
And then this is what I had locally.
So do I want one?
Do I want both?
Let's do both.
Why not?
So I'll keep that.
Remember, I can also use the VS code.
Just accept both changes button.
That makes it easy.
I'll save.
So I've got that.
Now go back here.
I need to make sure that I add the changes.
So Git add coffee, Git commit
and we'll just do something boring like fix merge conflicts.
And now we've merged together everything
but we see something that we didn't see before.
Your branch is now ahead of Origin/Food.
How is it ahead?
Well, the reason it's ahead is
that we have this commit and the merge commit
and those don't exist on GitHub, right?
This is why we wanna pull down first,
merge anything if there are problems,
and now I can push up to GitHub and there won't be conflicts
unless somebody happened to change GitHub, you know
add new commits or something in the meantime
the last 30 seconds or so.
Otherwise we'll be good to go.
So origin/food is still right here.
This is what GitHub looks like at this point in time.
It has the original coffee.txt file on this food branch
but it doesn't have my coffee commit
and it doesn't have the merge commit.
So all I need to do now is Git push
and then I can specify origin food.
And now if I head over here and refresh,
we see that we have a new commit showing up,
fixed merge conflicts.
And if I go into coffee.txt, both of them are here.
If we take a look at all the commits on this branch
you can see we've got Create the Apple, okay?
Create coffee.txt.
That was the one we did on GitHub.
Then add my coffee art,
that's the one that I just did locally.
And then fix merge conflicts.
So that's a simple example of generating a merge conflict
when you pull,
some work happened that we didn't have.
And at the same time we did local work that conflicted
with the work that was done and pushed up to GitHub.
So when I pull down there's a merge
and sometimes merges result in conflicts.
Alright? So that is the basics of using Git Pull.
The last thing I'll show you with Pull is a shorter syntax.
That's the next video.

--- A Shorter Syntax For Git Pull? ---

Instructor: Often when we're using "git pull,"
we can get away with an even shorter syntax
where we don't need to specify the remote
or the branch we want to pull.
Because it's really common to be on some branch, right?
I'm on the food branch,
and if I want the latest from "origin/food,"
that's where I would want to get changes from.
Normally I'm not gonna pull some other branch
onto the food branch.
I want the latest from food on GitHub.
So I could do "git pull origin food,"
I'm on the food branch,
I want food changes coming from origin.
We only have one remote right now,
so it should be origin anyway.
Right, we haven't configured another remote.
But "origin" is just such a common name in Git.
Again, you can change all of these,
but it's so common that it will default.
"git pull" will default to "origin"
if you don't specify a remote.
And the branch will automatically default
to whatever tracking connection is configured
for your current branch.
And, as in every example we've done so far,
the tracking connections are set up for us.
We never specify a tracking connection,
I didn't create them,
simply by switching to a remote branch.
If you recall, I go way back here,
when we did a "git switch,"
almost there, almost there.
Okay, when we did this, right, "git switch puppies,"
or "git switch food," or "git switch movies,"
that branch was set up for us,
and it automatically had a tracking reference
to the remote branch.
So typically these are just the same name.
"puppies," "origin/puppies,"
"food," "origin/food," "main," "origin/main."
You absolutely can configure them differently.
I could have my food branch, my local food branch,
for whatever reason, track the movies branch on origin.
You just normally wouldn't want that,
you normally don't do that.
So "git pull" depends on the context of where you are.
If I'm on the master branch and I run "git pull,"
Git will automatically default to "origin" as the remote,
and "master" because I'm on the master branch,
and currently the tracking branch,
the default value is "origin/master."
So same thing with puppies.
If I'm on the puppies branch and I run "git pull,"
it's just a way of saying, "Please get the latest changes
"and pull them down, merge them into this branch,
"from the remote version,
"from the origin version of puppies."
So it's really common to do this,
because that's normally where you want to pull changes from.
Right, if I'm on the food branch, I want origin/food.
So let's do it.
I updated the food branch in between videos
just to make it faster.
I didn't want you to have to watch.
I added a tea file, all right?
I don't have that locally, I'll just prove it.
Right, we don't see tea.
We have coffee, but no tea.
If I do "git pull," it pulled the food branch from origin,
I see the tea file right there.
I can view it.
If I do "git log," I have that new commit.
One more example.
I updated the fantasy branch.
I added a new file, "gryphon," there it is.
I don't have that.
If I switch to fantasy, "git switch fantasy," okay?
I don't have that new gryphon file.
You can see over here, it doesn't show up.
I could do "git pull origin fantasy,"
or just rely on the default, "git pull."
And now I have it.
It shows up there, and here it is.
So if you want, you can use that syntax of,
you know, typing out "origin" and typing the branch name.
Sometimes you need to use that syntax.
For example, if you have multiple remotes, which we will,
we'll have an upstream and an origin.
So sometimes we don't want to default to that origin.
But for now, really most of the time
you can just use "git pull,"
assuming you wanna update the puppies branch
with the changes from origin/puppies,
or the movies branch with the changes from origin/movies.
All right, so that about wraps up fetching and pulling.
Hopefully this diagram makes more sense now.
When we "fetch," we're getting changes from a remote repo,
but they're not integrated into our workspace.
When we "pull," we get those changes from the remote repo,
and then they are merged into our current HEAD branch.
Where we pull from matters.
And that brings me to the last slide.
Fetch gets changes from a remote branch, or branches.
Updates the remote tracking branches with the changes,
does not merge anything into your current HEAD branch.
And it's safe to do at anytime.
It's not gonna screw up any work that you're doing.
"git pull," on the other hand,
also gets changes from remote branches,
but it updates the current branch with the new changes,
merging them in.
And it can result in merge conflicts.
It is not safe to do at any time,
meaning that, you know, you can have conflicts,
you can have changes integrated into your working directory,
conflicting with work that you had been working on.
So not recommended to do if you have uncommitted work.
All right, so that's fetch and pull.

--- Github Repo Visibility: Public Vs. Private ---

Instructor: So the first thing we'll talk about
is the difference between public and private repositories
on GitHub, pretty straightforward.
There are two settings, right?
One setting with two options.
You can make the visibility of any GitHub repository
public or private, assuming that you're the owner
and you have permission to make it public or private.
So when you create a new repository,
it prompts you with that choice.
Here I have two GitHub accounts.
The one I've been using, Colt,
and then I made a new one for my chicken, Stevie Chicks.
So that's Stevie Chicks.
I'm also trying to make it clear up top,
this is Stevie's account, and this one's mine,
because here, it's somewhat easy to tell,
but once we get on an actual repository page,
if we're looking at the same repo,
it's really hard to tell who is who.
You can look at this little photo up there,
but that's kind of, that's it.
So I've put the name up top, Stevie and Colt.
Anyway, if I make a new repository, new repository,
we've seen that it prompts you for a name,
and then here, public or private.
So there's an important difference.
A public repository is accessible, it's discoverable,
it's clonable by anyone on the internet.
They can go find your repo by searching on GitHub.
They can find it by looking at your profile.
They can just have the link and view it, right?
Anybody can access it.
That still does not mean
people can change the contents of the repository.
They can't push to the repository.
They have to have collaborator privileges
or permissions to do that.
And I'll show you how to set that up,
but that's a separate topic.
We're purely talking about visibility.
So anybody can see a public repo,
but when I make something private,
it's only accessible to the owner, AKA me who created it,
and then people who have been granted access.
So they have explicitly been added as collaborators.
They then have access to a private repo.
Now, things work slightly differently
if we're talking about an organization
or enterprise-level GitHub account
where a private repository can be visible
to everyone within the organization.
But we're working with personal, free accounts.
So a private repo is only visible to me, the owner,
and people I specifically grant access to.
So let's try making,
sure, let's go with their name that they suggest,
bookish disco, and then I'll make it public to start.
Okay.
I'll just create, we're not gonna do anything in here.
I'm just making this repo,
so anybody can see this now.
If they go to my profile, go to repositories,
here it is, bookish disco.
Okay, so if I copy this over, I'm in Safari,
I'm in a different browser here on Stevie's account,
and if I go to this URL to view Colt,
that's kind of why it's confusing, right?
I'm viewing somebody else's account.
I see bookish disco,
even though I'm logged in as somebody else.
Now, I don't see the same display.
Like here, if I go to bookish disco, I'm the owner.
So I see this information about getting set up,
but I also see settings.
I don't see that here.
I'm just a member of the public
viewing the repository because it's public.
All right?
So speaking of settings, if you wanna toggle
or change that privacy under settings for a repository,
you have to be the owner,
unless we're talking about an organization
or enterprise-level account.
In that case, you don't have to be the owner,
but you have to be granted permission
to change the visibility.
Anyway, if I wanna change visibility,
it's under options, which we're already on, on settings,
and then you just scroll for a long,
long ways down to the very bottom.
We're looking for the danger zone.
And then we have this right here,
change repository visibility.
So I'm going to change visibility just to demonstrate this,
and I'm going to make it private,
but it's gonna ask me to type in,
well, first, it actually just shows me
all the changes that will happen.
Anybody who is watching the repository,
anybody who has starred it, you can star repositories,
like here's an example.
A couple hundred people have starred this one.
People are watching it.
They get notifications.
So if I make that private, that goes away.
But then also, there's some other changes
that go along with making something private.
I'll lose wikis
and different poll requests and other things.
Basically, we're going private,
so anything involving the public goes away,
but we don't have anything in here anyway.
So I'm gonna type that.
It wants me to exactly type the name of the repo.
So colt/bookish-disco.
All right, I understand.
Change visibility.
Now it wants my password.
Okay, so now it shows up as private, right here.
I'm on my account as Colt.
I'm the owner, so I can see that.
But if I refresh this page where I'm logged in as Stevie,
404, I don't have access at all.
I can't see that repository.
I don't know it exists anymore.
It's gone private.
So that's the distinction and that's how you change them.
Generally, it's a pain if you have a public repo
and you make it private.
I don't recommend, you know,
having some big established repository
with a whole bunch of collaborators
and then going private and suddenly it's just gone.
But you can do that, okay?
Generally, I go the other direction.
Start something in secret,
start it private so people can't see them.
For example, all these horrible little dumb demo repos
that we have just for this course,
all these Git repos like animals,
colors, chickens, GitHub demo novel,
I would normally make those private,
and then maybe make them public.
But I'm making them public
because I want you to be able to see them.
This is a Git course, okay.

--- Adding Github Collaborators ---

-: The next thing we'll talk about is collaborators.
How do we add collaborators to a repo?
Now that's different, right?
Working with somebody on a GitHub repo is different
from just making a repo public.
When I say working with collaborators,
I mean allowing other users to push changes
to the repository.
When a repo is public, anybody can take, like any
of these public repos, not this one that we made private.
They can take any of these public repos and clone them,
make their own changes and commits,
but they can't push them back up to my copy.
Nobody can just take over a repo
without me granting them permission.
Otherwise, they could delete everything,
and then just push up an empty version.
That's not how it works.
I have to grant people collaboration privileges.
So I'll show you how to do that.
I have two accounts, right?
I already explained that I have Colt
and then I have Stevie,
and why don't I add Stevie to this bookish disco repository
and give him permission to push?
So, I'm logged in, as Colt, the owner.
There's nothing even in here.
If I go into settings,
under settings, we've been here to options.
This is where we change something
from public to private and vice versa.
We also have manage access,
and this is where I can add direct access collaborators.
So here's visibility, right?
Only those with access can even view it in the first place.
Right now, that's just me, just Colt.
But I'm gonna change that, I'm gonna invite Stevie.
So to do that I need to know Stevie's GitHub username
or his email.
Now, I think if I remember,
I just did StevieChicks, like that.
Yep, there he is.
I'm gonna click,
and then I'm gonna add Stevie Chicks to this repository.
Okay, so that's just an invitation.
So Stevie now has to actually go to his email that he signed
up for GitHub with, he'll get a...
or he'll get a message there.
He has to click a link to accept the invite.
So Stevie opens up his email, he clicks the link.
I didn't show you that because it's my email inbox,
but I click the link as Stevie, and this is what we see.
Colt invited you to collaborate,
accept or decline.
So again, you can't just automatically add someone.
It requires permission on both sides.
I have to invite somebody and they have to accept.
And so as Stevie, I will accept, but it does, you know,
it says, here's the information that Colt
and other people will be able to have access to,
your activity, where your request activity is coming from,
basically country of origin, your IP address.
Anyway, I'm gonna hit accept, and now my view changes.
I wasn't able to see this repository just a second ago
because it's private, but now I'm a collaborator.
If I go back to Colt's view, we see now,
if I refresh the page, Stevie Chicks is listed
as a collaborator.
If I want to get rid of him, or multiple collaborators,
I can use check boxes and then delete.
But I am gonna keep him as a collaborator.
And so now, already we can see it's a private repo.
Stevie has access to this repository.
But what I'm gonna demonstrate next is that
Stevie also has push access.
It's not just about viewing the project on GitHub,
although that is new, because it's private,
he's a collaborator, he can view it.
I can also clone and push my changes up.
However, Stevie does not have access to settings, right?
Stevie is not the owner.
Stevie is a collaborator, but the owner is Colt.
I'm the only one who sees settings.
If I go to Stevie's side, that doesn't exist.
So that is an important distinction.
Being a collaborator, it's not like you can
do everything, right?
You can't delete the repository.
I can't invite my own people here.
I can't delete other people or remove their privileges.
With different levels, different tiers,
you definitely can have those features,
like organization and enterprise tiers.
You, on GitHub, you can have multiple owners.
So permissions are different.
So next step, I'll show you what it's like to collaborate
and actually make some commits,
and push them up from two different accounts.

--- Github Collaboration Demo ---

Instructor: Okay, so now it's time to show you
the actual collaboration process.
We will be talking at length about different workflows,
different strategies, for collaborating
with git in the next section.
For now, I'm just gonna show you, I don't know
making a commit as Colt and then a commit as Stevie
and pushing and pulling and working with multiple people.
Okay, so nothing crazy. Same repo.
We'll use this bookish disco
which is currently completely empty.
The first thing we have to get out
of the way, just quickly upfront, is that normally
to collaborate you need more than one person, right?
So I can't exactly collaborate with myself
but I can kind of fake it.
I'll pretend to be two different users.
I have two different GitHub accounts.
That part is easy, right?
I have one GitHub account for Colt
as we've already seen that's in my Chrome window
and I have another GitHub account
for Stevie that I'm using in Safari.
So I can have those two things signed in at once.
That's easy. It's just two different applications,
two browsers.
What is not as easy is having two different git users active
on my local machine, in my terminal.
In fact, it's kind of annoying because
if you remember setting up the SSH keys,
it's a bit of a pain to set this up.
So all that you need to know is that,
yes, I'm working on one machine.
This is all the same computer that I'm recording
but I've set it up in such a way
that I have one git user that I'll be working
with on this window where it says Colt.
It will be this same GitHub account, Colt
and then where it says Stevie, this terminal,
I'll be working as a completely different GitHub user.
So anything I do here will be as Stevie,
anything I do here will be as Colt.
This is definitely not something you need to do.
I, I don't recommend it. Just focus on being one user.
That's how most people use gits.
This is really just a conundrum I've run into
to teach git and collaboration.
Okay? So yes, it's one computer, but imagine it's two
separate computers across the globe from one another.
So right now nobody has done any work on this repository,
bookish disco. So who's gonna move first?
Let's do Colt first and according to git or to GitHub rather
the instructions want us to do git init and then
add a file or do some changes, then commit,
and then rename the branch to main and then add
on this remote and then push. So yeah, we'll do that.
We can do it that way. Or we could just clone
the empty repo, but we'll do git init.
Make sure we're not in anything.
Let's actually do this in a folder.
I'll call this bookish disco. You don't have to do that.
Alright, so git init, and then let's make a file in here.
What, what's gonna be in bookish disco?
Maybe just a playlist or how about artists.txt.
Disco artists is what we'll put in there.
And then I'll add that file, add artists.txt.
Whoops, git add artists, git commit.
Let's just do initial commit. Nothing exciting.
Okay, so I have that file
and I have that commit made by Colt.
Okay, so the next thing I wanna do is,
if I'm gonna follow these instructions,
I'm going to rename my master branch to main.
Of course you do not have to do that,
but that is what GitHub is asking us
or at least recommending these days.
So we'll, we'll do it just to get more practice working
with main instead of master.
Okay? So now before I can push, I need to add a remote.
So we add this remote here, we'll call it origin
as they tell us to do using this URL.
Okay, so I'm going to hit enter.
We should have this new remote. There it is.
Great. So now I can do a push. Git push origin main.
That's the name of my branch.
And there's just one commit. It's not an exciting commit.
If I refresh initial commit, we just made a file,
artists.txt. Alright, so it's on the main branch.
And now if I'm Stevie, over here,
I refresh the page on Stevie's account.
Remember, it shows Colts because that's who created the repo
but I'm on Stevie's account. You can see that here.
Signed in as Stevie Chicks.
So we see, okay, there's stuff here now, artists.txt,
there's a single commit. So I want to get this
on my machine and start working on it as Stevie.
So Stevie could clone this.
We copy that URL, and then we go
to Stevie's terminal and we make sure we're not in a repo.
Okay? And then we clone, okay?
So we now have this folder, bookish disco,
and I CD, inside of it.
We're on the main branch, type git log.
I'll make this a bit larger here.
We see that we have that one commit from Colt and that's it.
So let's go ahead and make our own commits.
We've got this artist file.
Let's add on some disco artists
if that's what we're doing here.
Let's do the Bee Gees and then what else?
How about Sylvester? And then we will add that.
So git add artists, git commit dash M, add two artists.
Okay, so we're on the main branch.
We now have a commit that we've added as Stevie Chicks.
The other original commit came from Colt.
This is from Stevie.
Remember two completely different laptops or machines
across the the globe from one another.
We're collaborating and I'm now going to push this up so
that it's on GitHub and Colt can go and get it.
So to do that, we need to push,
see our remote is called origin.
So git push origin main, that's the branch we're working on.
Come on, we refresh the page on GitHub and we see now
we have two commits, add two artists,
that's the most recent change. There we go.
So then the final part
of this basic workflow of collaborating
is as Colt, making sure I get these changes.
So how would I get those changes?
Well, there's a couple of options, but normally if I
I just want them on my main branch, I would just pull,
so I'm now on Colt's machine
and I don't have that most recent commit.
So the easiest option is just to pull down.
If we're looking for the main branch,
it's the only branch we have.
Or if it's master or whatever it is.
In this case, I'll just do a git pull origin main
and I'll pull down onto the branch I'm currently on
and it tells us fast forward, right?
We just got a commit that we didn't have, one file changed.
I can see if I type git log, we now have that new
commit from Stevie and I could now do some more
work and push that up and Stevie could pull down, right?
If I take a look at the artist file,
we have Bee Gees and Sylvester.
We have officially collaborated
across the globe using GitHub. So I created a GitHub repo.
I added Stevie as a collaborator.
Then I did some work, I pushed it up, Stevie cloned,
and then Stevie did some work
and pushed that up and I pulled down.
So that's the most basic workflow.
I just wanted to show you, you know,
how that works to have multiple people pushing.
In the next section, we'll talk a lot more
about potential workflows and the pros
and cons of different approaches for collaboration.

--- What are READMEs? ---

Instructor: So, we just talked about working
with collaborators and adding collaborators and all of that.
Now, we're switching gears to talk about
these things called README files.
So, you may remember, and you've probably seen it before,
when we make a repo on GitHub, if I just go new repository,
I'm not gonna actually make one, one of the options
of three options here to initialize a repository
with a file, one of them is add a README file.
So, what is that?
README in all caps.
Well, the README is a particular file
that plays a special role on a GitHub repository.
And it's not limited to GitHub,
but in our context we're talking about GitHub.
It's a file that is supposed to explain
what your project does, whether you're working
on some API or a web application, a video game,
or even if it's just, you know,
you're a government using GitHub to make laws and legislate.
Whatever your repo is, the README file
should include information about what the project does,
what it's for, who's it for,
how to get started with the project, how to run it
and install dependencies if necessary,
why it's noteworthy, who maintains the project,
how to collaborate the project, how to get help.
Not all of that has to be there,
but if there's important information you want to convey
to somebody coming to your project for the first time,
then put it in the README file.
So, README in all caps.
You'll see them all over the place if you haven't,
and they're very important
because if you put a README file
in the root of your project,
GitHub is automatically going to display it.
It will render the contents on the page for us.
So, when I go to a repository like this,
I just opened a couple trending repositories.
This one here, Clean Architecture,
it has a README file in the root of the directory
and it's automatically displayed for me.
As you can see, it tells me a title, a little brief
about what it does, a list of technologies,
how to get started, how to configure things,
how to configure the database, how to migrate,
all this stuff, keep going down, how to support,
or how to get supports, the license
that it's licensed under.
Here's a different project, same deal.
It's called, what is this spaCY?
It's a tool for natural language processing in Python.
Again, I just clicked a trending repo.
It has a README file, and if I scroll down,
that is what automatically GitHub detects
and it renders for users coming to this main repo page.
So, I see the title and all the stuff on the README.
There's more information, where to ask questions,
how to ask questions, features of this tool,
how to install things, how to update, what else?
How to compile from source, how to run the tests.
Okay, so we're not limited just to software,
although, of course, that's what a lot of GitHub repos are,
but the README file, whatever is in it,
is going to be automatically rendered
if GitHub detects it in the root of your project.
Also, I believe it will look in the dot git folder,
but almost everyone I've seen
puts it right in the root of the directory.
All right, so READMEs play an important role.
It's the first thing somebody looks
at when they come to your project.
I mean, the title says it all, README.
That's the goal.
That's the aim here.
Someone visits our, let's say React
'cause it's a very large repository,
this is like the entry point for people to learn more.
And often, it should include a bunch of links.
You know, learn how to use React, online playground.
So, this isn't even a very detailed README
compared to some of the others we've seen,
but it leads to tons of really important information
for somebody who wants to know how to use React
and how to contribute to React.
There's a whole section about contributing,
the code of conduct, contributing guide.
So, a bunch of stuff, that's really the role of READMEs.
It's like the entry point for somebody
to learn more about your project.
And again, we can see the file here.
It's just like any other file,
except it is named something very particular.
README in all caps dot md.
So, what is that md?
Well, it stands for markdown.
READMEs are markdown files.
If you're not familiar with the term,
markdown is a very succinct, convenient syntax
to generate formatted text.
It generates markup, markdown, markup.
And in the next video I'll show you
how we can write markdown,
and I'll show you an example of making a README.
So, that's coming up.

--- A Markdown Crash Course ---

Instructor: All right, so README.md,
it's the name of the file, it's a Markdown file extension.
In this video,
we'll talk a little bit about Markdown itself, the syntax,
and then in the next video, I'll make a README.
So if you just wanna see making a README,
go ahead and skip this if you already know Markdown.
So as I mentioned,
Markdown is this tool that generates markup.
This is the official project documentation.
It's pretty thin, it's very simple I guess.
It says, "Markdown is text-to-HTML conversion tool
for web writers.
It allows you to write an easy-to-read,
easy-to-write plain text format
and then convert it to structurally valid XHTML or HTML."
So for us, the benefit is that we can write
this very succinct, easy to, hopefully,
easy-to-write and remember syntax
that will then turn into HTML,
and, specifically, GitHub will turn it into HTML for us.
If we take a look at, let's see,
one of these READMEs, like this spaCy one here.
Let's just go to the actual file, spaCy.
Here's README, this is what GitHub shows me, right?
There's a lot of stuff here.
I mean all that text has to be written no matter what,
but how would you indicate, you know,
how would you make code blocks or a table,
as you can see, like this table here, and all these links?
If you know HTML, great.
You can do that, but it still takes a lot of work.
It's a lot of writing and additional syntax
and HTML elements.
So if we actually look at the raw Markdown,
so this is the rendered, but this is the raw Markdown.
It's a lot lighter weight.
So it's still a lot of text 'cause it's a long README.
But if you take a close look, we'll see things
like hash symbols or octothorpes,
stars or asterisks.
This is how you make things bolded.
Here's how you make a heading. Those ampers-
Not ampersands, the hash signs again.
Here's how you make a table. Here's how you make links.
So this syntax is then read by GitHub
and displayed as the output HTML
that is generated by Markdown.
So Markdown is not specific to GitHub.
People use Markdown all over the place.
There are tools that allow you to view Markdown
and render it yourself.
There's extensions for VS code.
There are standalone applications that are just Markdown.
And the one that I'll be using just in this video
is this markdown-it demo.
I'll include a link for it.
So on the left, we can see some raw Markdown
and on the right is the generated HTML.
So I can just show some very quick examples.
To make headings, as you can see here,
there are six levels of headings
just like in HTML if you're familiar with HTML.
We have six elements for headings, h1 down to h6.
So to make the main heading on a page
of which there should usually just be one,
we use a single hash sign and then a space
and then some text.
How about "I am a heading?"
And then you can see our automatically generated output
over here.
So this is HTML that Markdown makes for us.
This is the HTML, it made for me.
So instead of having to write that or all of this,
we can just write this.
It's more compact and it's easier for most people to write,
even if there's a bit of a learning curve at the beginning.
You just have to remember, you know,
what is the syntax to make a heading.
All right, so one common pitfall
is not putting spaces there.
So that is no longer a heading.
We need that space.
And then if we have, you know, two, I won't show all six.
But if we have two hash signs versus three,
it's a smaller heading and three is even smaller.
All the way down to six is the smallest that we can get.
Okay, so that's how we can make headings.
You can make horizontal rules.
There's lines going across like this
and I use that very often.
And like this, I guess three asterisks.
There are a whole bunch of other things you can do.
You can make these different symbols somewhat easily.
I never remember this though,
but what I do use somewhat frequently is making text bolded.
So using asterisks,
I'll type something like "Hello there everyone!"
And if I wanna bold something,
like I'll bold the word "hello," I don't know why,
I use two asterisks on either side
and you can see it is bolded.
If I instead do one star on something on either side,
it becomes italicized.
So bold is two stars.
One star or asterisk around something makes it italics.
You can do the same thing to make something strikethrough
using two tildes.
Don't really do that myself.
Now, something I do pretty frequently is make blockquotes.
So blockquotes start with a greater than sign
and they look like this right here.
So I'll show a demo.
Let's see, I'm trying to make this as big as I can.
Hopefully, this doesn't show up too small on the screen
that you're watching this on.
"I am a block quote." There we are.
It turns into this block quote that's being rendered for me
and I can have multiple lines.
If I just wrap over to the next line,
it still is considered part of that same line,
the same block quote.
So that is important when we're working with Markdown,
it considers just a chunk of text like this
to be one paragraph.
And if I want spacing, I don't just hit Return like that,
I have to have an actual empty line between them
to generate two paragraphs.
Additionally, we can make lists.
So you can make an unordered list.
Here, they're showing doing it with plus signs.
Usually I actually make my list like this with an asterisk.
So "first" and then another asterisk, "second."
Right, that's how I can make a bulleted lists
as you see there.
So you can use a plus sign, a dash, or an asterisk
to do that.
And then you can make sublists by indenting two spaces.
So I could do an example of that.
We indent two spaces and then another star, "sublist."
And you can see it is nested,
it's further nested inside of that bullet.
You can make ordered lists using numbers.
I won't show you that, but you can see it here.
And a really common important one is to make code blocks.
So if you want a block of code,
you can, first of all, just highlight a single line
or a single phrase, or I guess a single line
is what you would say, using these backtick characters.
So we can put those backticks around like this word "code"
and you can see it's rendered this way.
So I can do that on "Indented" as an example.
Those back ticks, that key is usually located
above the Tab key on the left of a keyboard.
And then you can also do blocks of code like this here
or this block here by wrapping some code.
So I'll just, I don't know,
I'll type some random thing here,
console.log("HELLO!")
and then I'll duplicate that and just do two lines of code.
So that's JavaScript.
And if I wrap it with three backticks above and below,
it turns into a block of code.
And I can even add syntax highlighting
if I use like, this is JavaScript,
so if I specify js,
now it's syntax highlighted as JavaScript.
So this is just a very quick crash course in Markdown.
It's not a huge topic, but you know,
we could spend a lot more time
talking about the nuances of syntax highlighting
and what languages are supported.
Here's how you make tables.
Personally, I find it a pain to make tables in general.
I don't use them that frequently in my READMEs.
But anytime I do, I just copy from the docs.
Now, links often trips students up.
If you've ever worked on Reddit by the way,
if you've ever written Reddit comments,
I forgot to mention this, that they use Markdown,
or at least they used to.
I think they still do.
So to make a link, you can write the text of a link
inside of square brackets, like, whoops,
trying to make this clear where I'm typing, like this,
"Hello there click me!"
And then immediately afterwards, we have parentheses
and then some link like www.google.com.
There we go. Now it has HTTP.
And if I try and click on that,
let's see, does it indeed take me to Google?
Yes, it does.
All right, so that's the basics of links.
Then we have images.
It's the same thing except we add an exclamation point
in front.
So this is the URL to to access that image.
And then this would be the alternate text
if that image doesn't load
or if they're using a screen reader to read this alt text.
So let's see, what else is there?
There's some stuff around emojis, superscript, subscript,
there's footnotes, there's definition lists, abbreviations,
there's a lot more.
And on GitHub, there's even some additional functionality,
but that's just a quick crash course.
We're not gonna spend a lot of time making fancy READMEs,
but you obviously can.
As you see here, I mean this is a table.
It's got a bunch of emojis.
In the table, there are links and they're bolded even.
There's a lot of stuff going on in each one of these, right?
We've got lists, headings, horizontal rules
as you can see that line, well hopefully it shows up
on the screencast, it's a little delicate.
So there's a lot of stuff,
code blocks, syntax highlighted code blocks.
So we saw basically how we do this.
We just would have to put all those pieces together.
And in the next video,
I'll show the process of making a README,
pushing it up and writing some basic Markdown.

--- Adding a README To A Project ---

Instructor: So let's try making our own README
for this idiotic bookish disco repository.
I just have to decide if I'm going to make that as Colt,
I guess.
Sure, let's do it as Colt,
and then we'll push it up and then pull down as Stevie.
It doesn't matter who makes it,
it just needs to end up in this repository.
And this is normally something you do pretty early on,
though you don't have to.
Honestly, a lot of the time you might be working
on a project and you don't expect anybody to ever see it.
You don't expect it to surface to see the light
of day publicly.
And then you decide,
actually maybe this is useful to other people.
Lemme put it online.
Ah, I need to add a README.
So it's not something you have to do at the beginning,
but it is definitely a good practice to get into.
And also, I forgot to mention this about READMEs.
They are probably the one thing that a recruiter,
a non-technical person would see if they're looking
at your projects.
They're not gonna look at the code, right?
They're probably not gonna read over the particular files
on this project if I happen to have made this,
but at least this gives them some gateway,
some entry point where they can try and gauge or
at least maybe understand the point of this whole project.
Anyway, back to bookish disco.
Let's make sure I'm up to date here.
Okay, so I can make the README.
I technically, I can just make it on GitHub, right?
I can do this, add file, and make it here, and then pull
down as Colt and pull down on Stevie's machine.
But I'll make it locally.
Before I do anything,
I should always make sure that I have the latest changes.
So I'll do git pull origin main.
I don't think there isn't any changes, right?
We still have, yeah, already up to date,
but just a good practice.
It just makes it easier so I don't have to deal
with like merges or something after I've made the README.
So I'll make the README file.
It should go in the root of my directory conventionally.
So the the root of my git repository, the project.
So I'll make that file dot md, it's just a markdown file.
So here it is, README.md
and then I can just put some super basic stuff in here.
We'll do a heading like we saw
in the previous video if you watched it,
just the main heading.
How about bookish disco?
And then below that we could even copy a README.
So Below we'll put a little paragraph of text
that just says what it is.
Maybe something
like bookish disco is a repository name generated by GitHub.
Okay, bookish disco is a repository name randomly generated
by GitHub.
This project does nothing.
It is purely a demo for a course on Git/GitHub.
Okay, so there's our basic repository
or basic markdown file so far.
If you're using VS code, you can actually preview markdown
if you have a markdown file dot md.
If you open the command palette and then type markdown
or M and it just comes up for me in recently used,
markdown open preview.
This is what we're dealing with.
We've got our heading and we've got our little text there.
And maybe we'll get fancy.
We'll do some bold around bookish disco.
Okay, so that's our basic README file.
Now I'm gonna add that, right?
Git add README.
Git commit -m "add README file".
And now we'll push this up.
Git push origin main.
Now we refresh our page for bookish disco,
and there it is.
We've got our lovely README showing up.
So the file is here, the commit is here
but also GitHub is rendering it for me automatically.
It detected README.
So it doesn't do that for any other file.
It's a special name it's looking for and that's kind of it.
That's README.md.
Right, we could spend a lot of time making it look nicer
but we're not going to.
This project has no purpose other
than to demonstrate how READMEs work
and how I guess collaboration can work.
So the last thing we should do though is go
over to Stevie, right?
He has the same repo, bookish disco,
and he does not have this README.
He does not have that latest commit locally, right?
That's the the last commit he has is add to artists.
He does not have this file for the README.
So, he doesn't have any changes that he's made.
So we're just gonna pull down, git pull origin
and then main.
That's the branch, it's the only branch we'll pull down.
And now we have that README type get log, new commit.
So just another example of somebody doing some work,
pushing it up, and then somebody else,
another collaborator pulling it down.
And that's all there is to READMEs.

--- Creating Github Gists ---

Instructor: The next GitHub feature
we'll cover are gists.
So GitHub gists are a very simple way
to share code snippets.
If you're familiar with something called pastebin
it's a very similar tool.
It allows you to basically copy some code
into a gist and then save that
and share it with other people or refer back to it later.
You don't have access to all the GitHub repo features
but you have access to some of them,
like forking, for example.
So I'll just demonstrate it,
first to access gist, not over there,
over here, if you go to GitHub, I go to gist.github.com.
Now, I'm sure there's a button somewhere.
I think it's actually, if we go here
to your profile and then your gists
I think that's the easiest way to get there.
Maybe there's another way
without just typing gists.github.com.
So it's a different page, right?
We see my personal list of gists actually,
I don't use them very frequently on this account.
Most of these are from when I was teaching lectures
but I can just show you one.
Let's say here is some exercise I made for students.
So this is an HTML file.
Okay, so there's this HTML file
I don't remember what this exercise was
what I was asking students to do
but there's the ability to leave comments.
I can personally, you know
delete this file or edit this file.
I can download it, I can share it with people
they can fork it and star it.
So I'll show you, if I go to all gists
I can see a discovery page.
So these are gists that other people have made.
So they range from markdown files
like I don't know exactly what this is.
It looks like some sort of checklist
for turning in work maybe, on GitHub.
So there's whoever this person is
made that gist and it's public.
But here's another one.
This looks like some sort of iOS script.
So here's a Swift script.
There's two files which we can do
and then you can make private gists as well.
So I use these when I'm teaching to share stuff
but you'll see them occasionally
like on Reddit or different webpages.
People will share code this way.
A full GitHub repository where you have to push up
and you know, set up your remotes.
And all of that can be annoying.
This you can do very easily.
So if I wanna make a new gist
it's just a matter of clicking the plus sign here
and then I enter a file name.
So what do I want to share with somebody?
Or what do I want to store in a gist?
Well, actually, here's a gist I've been using personally
as I'm making this course where I've set
up my computer to have two different GitHub accounts
and it's been kind of frustrating
to have to switch between them.
But this is a gist that somebody made to share this person.
Let's see, Owen Nguyen.
I am very sorry.
I'm sure I completely butchered that.
Anyway, this gist talks about
having multiple GitHub accounts
wanting to use 'em both on the same computer.
How to set up your SSH config file
which is exactly what I did.
I followed these instructions
how to add the two private keys
how to test your connection
and then it allows people to discuss and you know
post about their error messages or other suggestions.
So this is very, very useful.
It could have been a full fledged GitHub repo
with just one file in it, but it just is more appropriate.
So if I wanted to just try recreating some of this myself
this happens to be a markdown file, right,
so .md, a lot of gists are markdown
but they can be any file extension.
I'm just gonna copy this to show you.
I'll delete this.
I'm not plagiarizing his work.
Okay, so I can now name this
I'll call this, you know, I don't know.
GitHub, how about multiple GitHub, SSH.md.
And if I do that, .md it now highlights it as marked down
and then I can choose to create a secret gist
or a public gist.
I'll just create a secret one.
I can add a description, I'll create it.
And now I have this gist
that I can come back to at any point.
And that's pretty much all that there is to a secret gist.
I can edit it, I can write some comments.
I can also have gists, I believe
within the company that I work at
and share gists with people.
Keep them secret so they're not public facing
but have collaborators.
I can edit.
Whoops, that's just the raw, I can edit this way.
I can even add files.
So I could add some other file, like a JavaScript file
and it will highlight it as JavaScript.
Hopefully you can see that.
I guess it's a bit small.
There we go.
So it's getting JavaScripts and text highlighting
and that's kind of all that there is to gists.
So this one again, is secret, it's private
but I could make a new gist
and instead just make it public here.
And anybody could see that on my account.
And anybody can see anybody else's public gist.
As you saw here, there's this discovery feature.
I never, ever really use this
I guess except for this video where I'm showing you it.
It's pretty rare that I just wanna stumble across
random gists.
Anyway, that's all there is to GitHub gists.
You can have multiple files,
different file types, different extensions.
You can share them, you can keep them secret.
They are, I believe
behind the scenes actual Git repositories
although they don't expose the same features
on GitHub that we normally have access
to with a full fledged repo.
But we can see revisions, we can see diffs.
So there is a history here
but they're just very slimmed down
the actual interface is very streamlined compared
to a full GitHub repository.
So that about wraps it up for GitHub Gists.

--- Introducing Github Pages ---

Instructor: So next up,
we're going to talk about GitHub Pages.
A pretty fun, fun is the wrong term,
I guess useful feature of GitHub
is that we can actually host webpages
out of GitHub repositories for free, very easily,
with basically a single click of a button.
Once our code is up on GitHub, we can host a website.
Now there are some restrictions.
This is not a full-fledged hosting service,
you can't do anything except static webpages.
So that means no server-side languages
like Python, Ruby, or Node.
You're purely HTML, CSS, and JavaScript,
that's what you're limited to, client-side static pages.
But you can still create really amazing portfolio websites
or documentation websites for your repositories.
You can host, you know, if you build a JavaScript game,
you can use GitHub Pages to host that.
But you don't want to use GitHub Pages
for any like high-capacity website
where you're expecting a lot of traffic,
it's not really meant for that.
But it's a really nice feature,
and again, it's free and it's built into GitHub,
so it makes hosting very, very easy for certain situations.
So I'm going to show you some examples.
Here's the GitHub Pages homepage
where they explain how it works,
there's a video you can watch,
then they have the instructions.
But if we go to a project like Faker,
which is a JavaScript library,
this is the actual project on GitHub, it's open-source.
This is the entire repository,
all the collaborators, or contributors, rather.
If I scroll down, though,
there's a link right here to view the documentation.
So it's not the most beautiful website
but it is documentation
and has to do with the library Faker,
it's okay if you have no idea what it is,
but this is docs for this project.
And if you notice this URL,
it has GitHub in the URL, github.io.
So all GitHub pages are going to use that domain github.io.
You can change that, you can actually customize it
and set it up to use your own URL,
but I'm not going to go into that.
But that tells us this is actually hosted
thanks to GitHub Pages.
And here's another example.
This is a repository, oh, I'm on the wrong page.
Here we are.
This repository is a fork of that 2048 game
where somebody, this person here, Ovolve,
Ovolve created an AI solver for the popular game 2048.
So we can see the code here,
but also, thanks to GitHub Pages,
there's this URL I can go to to view the website.
And I don't know if you can see this,
I'll zoom in, hopefully, it's ovolve.github.io/2048-AI.
So it has GitHub in there again, github.io.
So this is another example,
where there's the actual repository,
there's a read me, there's information about the project,
but then, there's a corresponding website
and it happens to be hosted by GitHub.
Same thing that we saw with Faker.
Here is the project, the repository on GitHub.
And here's a website that goes along with that project,
it pertains to that project,
and it has GitHub in that URL as well.
So there are two types, two flavors of GitHub pages.
There are user sites and project sites.
So I'm going to focus on project sites.
For every single GitHub repository you create,
you can have a corresponding hosted website.
So that is, yeah, every single repo you make, every project,
you can have your own corresponding website
and the default URLs are going to follow this pattern.
Whatever your username is, so I'm Colt, is my username,
colt.github.io, slash, and then whatever my repo name is,
you know, portfolio or 2048 clone or something like that.
So that's one per project.
Then there's also user sites.
You are limited to one of those, one per GitHub account.
And this is a different application,
it's actually set up differently as well,
I'm not going to spend as much time on it.
But this is where you could host something
like a personal website, a portfolio,
anything that you want to be based
upon your username.github.io.
So colt.github.io, samanthajones.github.io,
where it's not a project, it's not a particular repository.
Instead, it's about you or your group, your organization,
you are allowed one per GitHub account.
But we're going to focus on project sites
like the two that I showed you.
We have a repo here
and then a corresponding documentation website.
And then we have another repo here,
and then just a deployed version of this project
that we can interact with.
So in the next video,
I'm going to show you how to set this up, it is very simple.
Now you will need to know a little bit of HTML,
just to make websites, but the actual mechanism
to turn it on with GitHub Pages is very easy.
So that's coming up.

--- Github Pages Demo ---

Instructor: All right, so I'm now gonna explain,
wow, I just realized this says Gitub pages.
That's annoying.
Well, I'm now going to explain
and demonstrate creating a GitHub pages hosted website
for a simple repository.
The first step is to make a repository
or pick some repository
that we want to create a GitHub page for.
So I'm just gonna make a new repository quickly.
I'm gonna call this one chickens.
It'll be public.
I'm not gonna put anything in there to begin with.
And then locally on my machine,
I don't yet have a repository, so I'm going to init.
And let's say that this repository is a list
of chicken breeds or chicken names or something.
So I've got this chickens.txt file I just created.
We'll add a commit.
So git add chickens, git commit,
you know, "initial commit,"
nothing crazy, nothing to do with the website yet.
I'll add some chickens into that list.
Let's see, we've got Australorps and Barnvelders.
I'm just copying and pasting some of these,
so I'm just gonna put some chickens in there.
It really doesn't matter.
Whatever the content of this is, it's not a website.
And that's what I wanna show you is
that I can have some completely standalone project
that is not a website.
Then I can create a branch
where I build out a GitHub pages website.
So this will be our basic project, our starting point.
I'll go ahead and add and commit,
"add," I don't know, "some chicken breeds."
All right, and then I want to get this up on GitHub.
So I guess we'll rename to main
just to follow what GitHub wants,
it is optional of course.
And then I will add my remote.
So I'm just gonna rename master to main
then I'll add my remote,
and then I'll just push up,
literally just copying and pasting,
I'll push up what we've done.
All right, so now we have
if I refresh one more time, we have some workup here.
Very simple, but imagine it's some complicated repository
like that Faker project I showed you.
Now if I wanna set up a GitHub page's website,
all that I have to do is select some branch
that I'm gonna tell GitHub contains a website
and specifically it's gonna look
for a file called index.html.
So I don't have that on here at all right now,
but if I did, I go to Settings,
and then scroll all the way down to this,
almost to the bottom right above the Danger Zone,
GitHub pages.
GitHub pages is currently disabled.
Select a source below to enable it.
And I have to pick a branch, so I'm not gonna select main
because currently there's no HTML file,
no index.html on the main branch.
But also I want to demonstrate
that you can have some project
on the main branch and have no website.
And then on a separate branch set up a website.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
I'm gonna make a new branch here,
git switch -c,
and I'll just call this one gh-pages.
You don't have to name it that.
actually I think in the past you did,
now you can make
any branch you want the designated GitHub pages branch.
So you don't need that.
And now I'm gonna make an index.html
and I might even delete that chickens file.
Oops, git status.
And then I'm gonna add those changes.
I'll commit and just say add index.html.
Okay, so now I have this HTML file
and it does need to be called index.
And if you don't know HTML, that's not a huge deal.
But basically I'm just gonna fill
out some very simple HTML in here.
Maybe I'll just put a heading Chickens! like that.
And then, I don't know, I guess that's probably it.
Maybe a paragraph that has some Lorem ipsum text.
So imagine that this is my website
that I want to host using GitHub pages.
All right, so that's what it looks like.
index.html.
I'm now going to add and commit,
git add index, git commit, I'm on this branch GitHub pages,
git commit -m,
and what should I do here,
write add basic html.
Cool, so now I'm gonna push this branch up,
git push origin and then gh-pages.
So now I should have two branches up here.
One that is my very complicated, just use your imagination,
very complicated repository, big project,
I don't know what it is a Python project or something,
a open source library.
And then the second branch contains a lovely website.
It's not hosted anywhere yet,
but it is a single HTML file.
So all I need to do now is go into Settings,
and tell GitHub pages
or tell GitHub that I want to use GitHub pages
on the branch gh-pages,
and I believe it automatically detected that name.
So that's kind of the conventional name a lot of people use
and it looks like it's set up to automatically detect that.
But I wanna be very clear,
you can name that branch anything.
I could make it the main branch that is hosted,
but I'm gonna go with gh-pages.
And then it asks me to select a folder,
where it will find the index.html file.
And ours is just in the root of the repository.
The other place you can do is a docs folder,
but we just want it,
or at least the way I have it right now,
it's just index in the root of the repository.
So that's good.
That's all we need.
This is how you can set up a custom domain.
We're not gonna do that
but here it shows me your site is ready
to be published at colt.github.io
slash the name of my repository, which is chickens.
So it often takes a little while,
especially in the first, well, nope, I'm wrong,
it's already up here,
but sometimes it can take a couple of minutes.
But here's my hosted website, right?
It's not beautiful, but colt.github.io/chickens.
You could go to this right now
and I'm actually gonna change this a bit.
So you won't see this, but you'll see the website,
and then I can continue to make changes
to my other branches, right?
I can build out the rest of this main branch
and have a whole bunch of changes
and files and collaborators.
But then separately decide that I wanna update the website.
All I do is push new code up to GitHub pages, gh-pages.
That's the name of the branch.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
I'm actually gonna update this HTML file a little bit
and make it somewhat nicer.
Here's a CodePen that I found by this guy, Cesar C.,
and I want to use this text, this animated SVG.
So I'm just gonna basically adapt this.
I'm gonna say chickens instead.
And then I'm going to copy the corresponding HTML and CSS.
This is actually written with something called Pug.
I want the compiled HTML.
This really has nothing to do with GitHub pages.
But anyway, I'm gonna copy this,
and put it in my HTML file.
I'll get rid of everything else in the body,
and then I'm going to look at the compiled CSS,
copy all of that,
and I'm gonna make a CSS file,
I'll call it app.css,
and put all of this in there.
All right, and now I need to link to that CSS file,
app.css, that's the name of that file.
Great, and then I'm just gonna add and commit that.
So git add app.css,
I'll just do an add dot I guess,
and then git commit -m,
I don't know, add animated text to index.
All right, so I'm on the GitHub pages branch still.
So git push origin gh-pages.
So I've modified my website, the index.html file,
on this branch, I push that branch up,
we go back, and just make sure that code is now here.
If I look at that branch, right,
we have app.css and our new version of index.
And then if I go to the URL where it's currently served,
colt, my username, .github.io/chickens.
I refresh, it happened quickly.
I recorded this video earlier today
and had to throw it away,
It was taking like 20 minutes to update,
but this time I got lucky.
And this is our hosted webpage.
I will leave it as this.
You could go to this URL yourself and view it.
I'm not paying to host this, right?
GitHub is doing it for free.
Again, that doesn't necessarily mean you should use it
for important projects or things with high stakes,
but for portfolios or for personal websites,
for documentation, for small projects,
to just to demonstrate a project,
GitHub pages is a great resource.
So all you do, again, is for a project,
make some branch or it could be your main branch,
and then go into Settings and designate that branch
as the GitHub pages branch.
So I could change this over to be main,
but there's no index.html there.
So we won't actually see a webpage.
But if I did, if I had an index on main,
I could serve that instead, and I would see it here.
So I push up my code,
push up changes to that branch up to my GitHub repo,
and then wait a moment, refresh.
It might be more than a moment
but a couple of minutes hopefully at most.
And I'll see those changes reflected here.
So that is GitHub pages a really, really nice resource.
It's free and pretty simple to use compared
to a lot of hosting services.
But again, remember, it is limited to static sites.
This is not a full-fledged hosting service
for full web applications with backends,
but still we are very thankful for it.

--- The Pitfalls Of A Centralized Workflow ---

Instructor: So the first of these collaborative workflows
I'm calling the centralized workflow.
It's not really an official name or anything,
but I'm telling you now, it is the weakest,
it's the worst of these workflows for collaborating.
And the reason I'm showing it to you
is that the shortcomings of the centralized workflow
are addressed by the other workflows
that we're going to discuss.
So we're kind of motivating the more complicated workflows,
but we're starting with the simplest.
So I'm calling it the centralized workflow,
aka everyone works on the master branch,
or everyone works on the main branch,
or everyone works on some single branch.
So that's why it's super-easy.
It's centralized, because all the work is done
on a single branch.
Whatever that branch is, historically,
that would just be the master branch, a default,
but it could be any branch.
So it's straightforward, right?
We don't have to worry about pushing up a whole bunch
of different branches and pulling them down
and merging different branches,
we just work with one branch.
So I have some diagrams
that I'm gonna be using throughout this section.
They all kind of follow the same pattern.
Up top, we have three different collaborators,
Pamela, David, and Forrest,
and I'm highlighting one of them
to indicate whose repository we're looking at
on their local machine versus up top in the right corner.
This is the GitHub repository that all three are using.
So this is the same repo on GitHub for everyone.
But then we have three different local repositories,
but they're all connected to that same GitHub repo.
And I have similar diagrams for the other workflows
the same characters, the same format.
So with this centralized workflow,
everybody clones the same repository,
so this is our starting point, just one commit.
So Pamela clones it down, right?
There's the master branch or the main branch,
whatever we wanna name it, it's the same branch.
So David clones it, he gets that default branch, master.
Forrest clones the same GitHub repo, and he has it.
So now they get to work.
Forrest, this guy here with a mustache
spends his day adding and committing.
He's working on some new feature.
He has two new commits.
So this is what he started with here.
He has two new commits worth of work on the master branch.
So he wants to share that with everyone, right?
He pushes that up.
So you can see those new commits.
There's now three total commits on GitHub.
During this same period where Forrest was working
and he pushed his code up,
Pamela has also been hard at work
on her own feature all day.
So that yellow commit is Pamela's new work.
Okay, so as she's been working,
Forrest already pushed some code up.
Pamela now wants to share her code with everyone.
So she wants to push it up.
So she tries it, git push origin master,
but she's not allowed to.
Why?
Well, she gets this message, failed to push.
Updates were rejected because the tip of your current branch
is behind its remote counterpart.
Merge the remote changes git pull before pushing again.
So git is telling her, I can't do that.
There are changes that you don't have on GitHub.
You need to get those changes
and merge yours with those changes,
and then you can push back up.
So already we hit a roadblock, right?
Just for Pamela to push her code up,
she has to pull down everything
that her other collaborators have pushed up.
They're all working on the same branch.
So if she does that, she pulls down
she gets the changes that Forrest had pushed
from on the master branch from GitHub,
then she merges her work in
and hopefully that goes smoothly.
There might be a bunch of conflicts, maybe not,
but she has to do it and then she can push back up.
So now there are four commits up on GitHub or more,
but a minimum of four,
although I didn't really include
there would be a merge commit here.
So let's say five, but whatever it is,
she pushes up her new commits and she's good to go, right?
That's her part done for the day.
Now, during all of this,
poor David has been working on a new feature,
but he's been having some doubts, it's not working.
He's really halfway done.
He's deleted a bunch of important files,
he's committed out some code, things are broken.
So he wants to get some input,
some advice from his collaborators.
He wants to start a discussion
and he wants them to see the code.
They're not working in an office together.
So he has this work and he has some commits
indicated by this meh face,
this I guess, is that I would call it a meh face
or a neutral face, I don't know.
Anyway, he's not happy with it, but he makes a commit.
And if we're using this centralized workflow, one branch,
so he's just working on the master branch.
So in order for him to share this,
he can't just push it up,
because as we saw Pamela earlier tried and git said,
no way, you can't do that,
you've gotta pull down, get the changes, then merge
and then you can push.
So that's what he does.
Before he can even share
this mediocre, unfinished broken code,
he has to first pull down, get all the new changes
and merge his broken stuff in, his incomplete feature,
he has to merge that in with the rest of the work
everyone else has done on the master branch,
then he can push that up
and now everyone can go and pull his work down.
And he broke the code base.
Probably if this is incomplete
everybody now has that incomplete code
and that's really frustrating and problematic.
All he wanted to do is get some input
and have some of his collaborators take a look at his work.
But to do that with this workflow
he had to wreck the master branch, the one and only branch.
So hopefully the problem is clear with those diagrams.
It's simple, you don't have to think about
where you're working if you're only working on one branch.
But there are some serious issues, some shortcomings.
First of all, every person has to spend a ton of time
resolving conflicts or at least merging code,
especially as team size scales up.
Imagine you're working with, let's say, 10 developers,
and at the end of the day,
everybody makes a bunch of commits, they push them up.
Well, for each one of those developers
to make those commits and push them up,
they first have to pull down everyone else's work
just to merge their stuff in.
So it's a lot of merging and potential conflicts
even if work is not entirely finished.
So that brings me to the next piece,
no one can work on anything
without disturbing the main code base.
How do you try some radical experiment?
How do you try removing files and committing things out,
trying to fix some crazy difficult bug
if you have to work on the master branch?
How do you experiment?
And that brings us to the last piece,
there's no way to really collaborate on anything
unless you push incomplete code up to master
and now all your other teammates have incomplete
or broken code,
which is what happened here in our final scenario.
David wanted...
Is this David?
Yes, David wanted some help.
He wanted to collaborate with, let's say, Pamela.
For her to get that code
he had to add stuff onto master that's broken,
push that up, and now the whole code base is broken
at least at the tip of the master branch.
Everyone else comes to work the next morning,
they get the most recent changes.
Oh, things are broken for everyone.
So not a good workflow.
It can be manageable if you're a very tiny team
and you're not doing anything experimental.
Even then, I wouldn't really recommend it,
but it is a option.
So that really serves to highlight the problems
with working in one branch,
which now motivates us to talk about workflows
that involve multiple branches.
That's coming up.
In the next video,
I wanna demonstrate some of these problems for real,
using a GitHub repo.

--- Centralized Workflow Demonstration ---

Instructor: Okay, here goes nothing.
I'm gonna demonstrate the centralized workflow.
I'm working with the same two user accounts,
same two Git users Colt and good old StevieChicks.
My chicken, well you can see StevieChicks
that's who I'm signed in here.
Once again, paid attention to what you see up top
that is very important to differentiate
between the different users.
Alright, so I've made a repo called centralized-workflow.
Colt is the owner and I've gone ahead
and added StevieChicks as a collaborator.
As you can see here, I just fast forwarded,
or I didn't even fast forward,
I skipped through that part entirely
because it just takes time.
I had to open the email and accept the invite as Stevie.
But anyway, we both have access.
It's a public repo for now.
It doesn't matter.
And Colt's already added a simple Read Me,
and I actually did that all in the browser.
I don't have this on my local machine,
so I am gonna clone this down as Colt.
So make sure I'm not in a Git repo, git status.
Cool, so git clone that URL,
okay, so now we have that folder,
git status, we've got the README,
and I'll open that over here.
Okay, so there's that file there.
And then I'll go ahead and clone the same repo down
to Stevie's local machine,
so that we can, you know, both work on it.
Just like we would just like in the diagrams,
where in this centralized workflow,
everybody clones or everybody gets the same starting repo,
the same remotes.
So that's what I'm gonna do here.
Okay? So I'm gonna copy this URL,
and then as Stevie clone it.
Okay, and just as a reminder,
I had to jump through some hoops in order
to have these two different accounts and be able to clone
as separate users with different SSH keys.
So I actually did tweak my URL a bit to make this all work.
It doesn't really matter
because I'm not expecting you to do it.
But I just wanna be very clear and transparent about that.
I am on one machine,
and normally you don't have two different accounts,
and two different SSH keys and all of that.
Anyway, I clone that, we see centralized-workflow.
Great, and we're now working on that.
I'll open it in Stevie's editor too.
Okay, so now we both have it.
We've cloned, we're ready to go.
So we're gonna make a simple website.
I'm talking very, very simple,
and Colt is gonna start it off.
Colt is going to make the index.html, our main file,
the entry point into our app,
and then he's going to add and commit that.
So we'll do a git add index,
git commit -m "add index.html",
I'm doing super short
and kind of terrible commit messages, but that's fine.
And then what I'm going to do is use Bootstrap.
So if you're familiar with Bootstrap, great.
If not, it doesn't really matter
because I'm not expecting you to follow along.
But I'm going to open that HTML file
and add some basic Bootstrap boilerplate.
Okay, so I put that in there,
and I'll add and commit that as Colt,
git add index, git commit,
add bootstrap boilerplate.
All right, so now I'm gonna push this up.
I'll clear, I'm gonna push those two commits to origin main.
If we're all working on one branch,
in this case it'll be the main branch,
but in the diagrams I created,
it's the master branch everyone's working on.
But it's the same concept.
So basically right now we are playing the role of Forrest,
doing some commits and pushing them up.
All right, so that's what I'm gonna do.
git push origin main,
and that goes up to GitHub.
And now if we refresh our repository,
we see index.html, right?
This is now up here.
So now as Stevie,
we definitely wanna pull down those changes, right?
So gi pull origin main just to start.
All right, and so now we have that new file index.html,
and let's get to work.
Let's say that Colt has been tasked
with making a form on their webpage.
A simple form.
So we're just gonna copy some of the forms
from the documentation.
Maybe it's a form that looks like,
sure, maybe it's just a login form.
So we're just gonna copy this just to keep everything short.
So this is on Colt's machine.
We'll put this in the body, we'll add a Bootstrap container.
Okay, so this is the work.
We'll pretend this took all morning,
Colt did this work.
So then Colt decides.
So weird saying my name in third person.
But anyway, I decide it's time to make a commit.
So always check its status.
All right, git, I'll just do a one-liner,
git dash, or git commit -am
for what'd we do, "add basic",
this is a login form that we made,
sure, "login form".
All right, so now Colt pushes this up.
He wants everyone else to know about this.
So git push origin main.
Now at the same time all this has been happening,
Stevie is working on some other feature.
Stevie has been tasked with adding a Navbar,
probably not exactly, right?
A super realistic reflection of a real workplace,
where one person is asked to just put a form on a page,
and somebody else is asked
to independently put some random Navbar on a page,
and then they're expected to combine it.
Usually there would be some sort of design process
and some sort of mock up or wire framed or something
that would be what we were trying to recreate.
But anyway, let's just say it's a free for all.
Stevie has been asked to add a Navbar.
So on Bootstrap, we can make all sorts of fancy Navbars
like this one here.
Again, I'm just gonna copy this, just straight up copy it.
I don't wanna waste your time.
So Stevie, this is Stevie's desktop here,
puts that in index.html,
puts it right above everything else.
So this is Stevie's work.
Let's see what it looks like.
If we refresh, there's the Navbar.
Okay, so then Stevie adds and commits that,
git add index,
git commit -m "add bootstrap navbar"
okay, so then he keeps working
and then maybe he makes another small tweak.
He actually wants this to be a dark Navbar.
So on the Navbar,
we can change this navbar-light to be navbar-dark,
and then give it a dark background.
So bg-dark like this.
Let's see what that looks like.
All right, so that's what Stevie wants.
And then he realizes, oh, you know what?
This is supposed to be responsive and it is,
except why is this drawer not working right?
He wants this drawer like it does on the documentation.
Whoops, it's on this page, isn't it?
On the documentation when this collapses,
right there, there's this dropdown that's supposed
to show up or this drawer that expands,
but it's not happening on Stevie's copy,
and he's freaking out.
He's very junior, I mean, he's a chicken,
he doesn't know what's going on.
So he decides, you know what?
I should just ask Colt, he's somewhat experienced with this.
I'm gonna just ask him,
I'll send him a Slack message,
and I'll put my code up on GitHub.
So you probably know where I'm going with this.
Stevie needs to put this code on GitHub.
He wants to put this half, I mean, it's kind, it's working.
It's a Navbar, it's showing up,
but for whatever reason, it's not collapsing.
He wants to share this with Colt.
So Stevie goes ahead and adds and commits.
He needs to add that git add index,
git commit -m "change navbar color
to dark" or something.
Alright, so now Stevie, moment of truth,
I'll make this a bit larger here.
Now he pushes this code up
and if we're doing this centralized workflow
if there's only one branch main, he pushes that up.
So git push origin main,
uh-oh, what does this say?
Rejected. Oh, who saw this coming?
Failed to push some refs to blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Updates were rejected
because the remote contained work
that you do not have locally.
This is usually caused
by another repository pushing blah, blah, blah, blah.
So basically we ran into this problem, oh my gosh,
lots of desktops, right here,
where if we try and push something up,
and we don't have all the new work from GitHub,
Git won't let us do that.
So we first have to pull those new commits down.
Basically, I have to get the work,
Stevie has to get the work
that Colt pushed up to GitHub.
Oh boy, what a nightmare to talk about all of this.
But right, there's these new commits.
There's five commits here.
The most recent one is the login form
that Colt pushed up to GitHub.
Stevie doesn't have that locally,
so we have to pull down, so we can do that.
git pull origin main.
And it could have been worse, but there was still a merge.
So we have this merge commit,
and it's saying, merge Branch main,
blah, blah, blah, blah, on into main.
Sure, we'll just go with that.
So this is what things now look like on Stevie's machine.
He got the changes that Colt did for this form.
So now he can push up, hopefully, let's see, git status.
Yes, he's good to go.
So he can push up, git push origin main,
which is what we tried to do in the first place, right?
We don't even have this finished Navbar.
It's still not really working.
We wanna push that up.
Okay? We go to GitHub and it does show up here.
We can see on index, we have the Navbar content.
So in the meantime, it's the next day.
Colt shows up to work and he starts doing some other stuff.
Let's say he's just making some minor tweaks.
He's changing the form.
I don't know what he's doing to the form,
instead of We'll never share your email with anyone else,
We'll always share your email with everyone.
So he's just making some changes.
And then he gets that message from Stevie saying,
"Hey, I just pushed up new, some new code,
this broken nav mark, can you try and fix it for me?"
So Colt then has to decide, okay,
well I have these changes, right, on my master branch,
or my main branch, the only branch allowed in this workflow.
Oh, you can see it's kind of a nightmare.
I have changes that are not ready to commit.
What do I do?
I want to go get that new stuff from Stevie,
but if I try and pull right now,
git pull origin main,
and what do we see?
Oh, it doesn't actually let me do it.
It says, "Your local changes
to the following files would be overwritten.
Please commit your changes or stash them before you merge."
So it doesn't even let me get the newest version,
the newest work that Stevie's done.
So I need to commit or stash.
I guess we could stash, but that's fine.
So git stash.
Okay, so now I can take a look.
I can do a git pull origin main again,
we're all just working.
We're stuck on this one branch.
All right, now I get that new commit, hopefully from Stevie.
Let's just take a look.
We have the Navbar.
It is showing up and it's not working,
right, I go back here, it's still broken.
And that was the point.
Stevie wanted help and just to get help,
he had to break the main branch.
Our only branch.
I mean, it's not truly broken,
but he had to add this incomplete code to it.
This isn't working and it's not ready for production.
I'll get in trouble from my boss.
I can't do this sort of thing.
So in the next video,
we're gonna talk about a much better workflow.

--- The All-Important Feature Branch Workflow ---

Instructor: Okay, so as we've seen
the centralized workflow, AKA
everyone works on one branch, is not ideal.
Quite a few issues.
That brings us to our next workflow,
Feature Branches.
I don't really know what to call it,
but that's the concept.
Work on feature branches.
Don't work on master, you silly goose.
That's the main idea.
If the centralized workflow is
everyone works on master,
the feature branch workflow is
nobody works on master or main.
You always work on a feature branch.
This is a very, very common pattern.
Rather than working directly on the master branch
or the main branch or any centralized branch,
all development, whether it's something tiny,
or some massive new feature, or a redesign, or a bug fix,
all development should be done on separate branches.
So part of this means treating the master or main branch
as the official project history,
the branch, right?
Like the sacred branch that you're not going to work on.
Instead, all work is done
on these side feature branches
and then merged back in
to the master or main branch when appropriate.
This allows multiple teammates to collaborate
on the same feature
without having to mess up the master or main branch.
Like with what happened
with the centralized approach
to share broken code or incomplete code
also meant breaking the master branch.
So with this feature branch workflow,
I could have a branch that never works,
it's always broken, and I can collaborate
on that with anybody else, any number of collaborators.
So my master or main branch
should not contain any broken code
unless somebody messes up
and you know thinks code is not broken
and they merge it back in and it actually is broken.
So back to our diagrams.
Here's the same three characters.
Forrest, David, and Pamela.
They all clone the same GitHub repository.
It starts with two commits and a master branch,
or a main branch.
In this diagram, master is the default branch name.
So Forrest clones it,
Pamela clones it,
and David clones it.
Everyone's at the same point.
Okay? So we work on feature branches.
David starts working on a new feature.
He's working on a branch called Add Dark Theme.
So he's hit a point where he's not totally done,
he's maybe 30% of the way there,
but he wants to share his work with the rest of the team
and specifically he wants some help from Pamela.
He wants her feedback or maybe he wants her to
write some code.
So he pushes his branch up,
he pushes add Dark theme up to GitHub.
So he didn't merge it into master, right?
It's not merged into anything.
He just pushes that feature branch up to GitHub.
So at the same time during this morning or afternoon
or whatever it is,
Pamela has been working on her own new feature,
animated scroll.
It's the name of the branch she's working on.
It's a totally separate branch,
it's in yellow here to make that clear,
she's not working on master.
Nobody works directly on master or main.
So she's working on her branch,
she's made good progress,
but then she gets a chat message from David.
David sent her a Slack saying,
Hey Pam can you please take a look
at the work that I did today on the branch?
What was it called?
Add dark mode.
Is that what it was?
Add dark theme.
Can you take a look at that branch,
pull it down from GitHub
and lemme know what you think
and add some of your own work.
So that's what she does.
She pulls down that branch.
She didn't have to stop what she was doing
and merge this into some other branch.
She can just leave her animated scroll branch
where it was if she's not ready to share it
and she just pulls down his branch.
So we've seen how to do that
and how we can switch to a remote branch.
We can fetch to see if there are new branches
that we don't have and then switch to them.
So if she gets his feature branch down,
add dark theme, and it doesn't pollute the master branch,
it doesn't pollute her animated scroll,
they can coexist side by side.
So she takes a look, she makes a couple of improvements.
She even adds her own commits on the same feature branch.
So it was three, now it's four commits.
So she pushes those up.
Add dark theme is now updated on GitHub.
She tells David,
Hey, I added some new work.
Go ahead and pull down those changes.
And so he returns to work the next morning.
I guess this was late at night or evening.
And after some Redditing in the morning he decides,
okay I guess I should get back to work.
But all that he has are these three commits
on add dark theme.
All he needs to do is pull down
see if there's any new information,
I mean he could fetch first to check,
but he gets the new work from that branch on GitHub
that Pamela did and now he can continue his work
and then at some point maybe he decides he's happy
with a new feature and he can merge it into master.
So that's what I'm illustrating here.
So that actual mechanic or mechanism
for merging into master,
usually you don't just decide
if you're at a big company, you don't decide.
All right, this goes in master.
There are usually some controls.
I mean at the very least there's code review.
Somebody or a team of people
need to look at what you've written, right?
Things need to pass tests.
So it's not a matter usually of just merging it
in whenever you want
and we'll talk about some of those mechanisms
for code approval and rejection.
But that doesn't really matter for this workflow right now.
All that matters is that when a branch is done
or when a feature is done,
it can be merged into master.
So this would ideally and, and the, the way
that this is supposed to work,
this is a fully done feature
it's not broken, it's ready to go,
then we merge it into the main branch of the master branch.
We don't merge broken stuff in
unlike the previous centralized workflow.
So everyone works in a branch on a given feature,
you could have multiple branches too.
It's not necessarily like Pamela's branch
and David's branch,
it's more one branch per feature
or branch per bug fix.
Branches are feature oriented.
So this allows us to then share those branches,
collaborate on branches,
and keep our master or main branch
as the source of truth in our repository
as the stable, always working, functioning,
non broken branch in our project.
And of course the last thing that would would need to happen
once David merges his new feature branch in,
is he would push that up so that GitHub is updated
and now everyone's master branch would include
those new commits,
those new changes that he made
on his feature branch originally.
So that's the main idea.
Master or main or whatever you want to call it,
you treat it as a branch that is not to be screwed with.
It's the official project history.
All work is done on separate branches
and then those branches can be either abandoned
or eventually merged back in to the official project history
whether that's master or main.
Remember this slide from the centralized workflow,
these were all problems with working on one branch.
No one can work on anything
without disturbing the main code base.
That's not a problem
if you're working on a feature branch.
The only way to collaborate on a feature
is to push incomplete code to master.
Nope, that's not a problem now
if everyone works on feature branches.
Way less time spent resolving conflicts and merging code
because now code only needs to be merged
when something is ready to go into master.
Not anytime anybody does literally any commits,
which is what happened when everyone works on one branch.
Okay? In conclusion, feature branches
much better approach.

--- Feature Branch Workflow Demo ---

Instructor: Alright, so I'm gonna do a demonstration
of working on feature branches and collaborating
between the same two people, me, Colt, and Stevie.
The Chicken.
So I've made another repository
on GitHub called creatively "feature branch workflow."
I've already added Stevie,
as a collaborator and I've accepted the invitation.
So Stevie shows up there.
And I've been working on this repo locally as Colt.
So not, I haven't done much.
This is all that we have.
If it's the same thing, a a bootstrap website
just basic bootstrap included
and a heading that says Hello world.
So again, we're not trying to like go crazy
with some fancy code or anything.
I'm just trying to show the, the workflow.
So in the last example, it sucked working
on the master branch or on the main branch.
I had to pull down and merge code
before I could ever push my code up.
We broke the main branch
because Stevie was trying to share some uncomplete
or incomplete code to get feedback
and hopefully get it solved.
Anyway, that won't be a problem if we work with branches.
So I also cloned it down from Stevie, right?
This is Stevie's side as it shows you there.
I cloned it down and we're working on it locally as Stevie.
So why don't we say Stevie gets to work
on a navbar, same thing as last time.
Now he's not gonna work on the main branch.
Instead he's going to create a new branch.
We haven't really talked about naming feature branches.
I'm gonna keep it very simple
and do something like navbar or add navbar.
There are lots of patterns that large companies
and organizations follow for feature branch
or just branch naming in general.
You might see, see things
like feat for feature slash navbar for example.
And then you might see something
like bug or fix or refactor, different prefixes.
But I'm just gonna go with a very simple one.
We'll just call it navbar.
So we'll do git switch dash c,
to make that new branch, navbar.
Okay, and again, I'm logged in right now as Stevie.
I'm working as Stevie.
So on this branch that we're currently on
I can go ahead and try adding a navbar.
So we'll do the same thing as last time.
I'll copy that very large navbar from Bootstrap.
I'll put it up top.
Let's see what that looks like.
Okay, there's our basic navbar, but once again
it's not working the way it's supposed to.
Hmm. What's going on?
Well, I would like to share this with Colt and you know
get some feedback from him or from anybody on the team.
See if they can fix that issue.
I'm not gonna merge it into Master.
I'm simply going to take this branch.
I'm gonna add and commit my work on this branch
because I can have incomplete or broken stuff on a branch.
No one cares.
My master branch or the main branch
is supposed to be the working,
the source of truth branch for my application.
So I'm going to add and commit as Stevie.
So git add index, git commit,
I don't know
begin navbar or add broken navbar.
Okay, so now I can push that up to GitHub if I want to.
I probably wouldn't push that up
as just a broken halfway working navbar.
But if I wanted to get feedback or collaborate
with a a teammate, which is what I'm going to demonstrate
then I definitely would push it up.
So I'm gonna do that now.
We have our remote, right?
We have Origin and I'm gonna push the branch navbar.
So git push origin navbar and push that up.
I refresh.
And we already see, okay
navbar has recent pushes less than a minute ago.
And I can see my work is showing
up here on navbar by Stevie Chicks.
So I preserve the state of main,
I don't have to screw up main
and I can still share code that is incomplete.
Meanwhile, Colt is working away on his own feature.
And so he's on his own branch.
What is he doing?
Let's say he's, he's working
on a pricing table like you see here.
This is just one of the examples from Bootstrap.
If you go to examples.
So I'm gonna start before I go any further
by making a branch that we're going to work on.
So if we're trying to make this pricing table
let's make a branch called Pricing Table
or something like that.
So I'm now switched back to Colt
and I'm going to just check, all right, I'm on main.
So let's, the first thing I would always do is just see
if there's any updates or any new changes
to main before we branch,
because we want the most recent version of main.
Maybe a coworker has merged something
into main and I don't have it.
So we could always do git pull origin main
although there's nothing new up there
we're already up to date.
But now I can make my branch
without having to worry that I'm missing commits.
Anyway, git switch dash c.
Let's just call this pricing table.
Okay, so I'm on this new branch
and now I can do some basic work.
I'll do maybe two commits.
So the first one
I'm just gonna add a container to work inside of
if you don't know Bootstrap at all.
Again, that's not the point here
so please don't worry about it.
But I'll just do very basic simple commits.
Like you wouldn't commit that just a single html element.
But I will here.
So git add index
and then I'll do git commit,
add container to index.
Okay, now let's do another commit where,
I'm just gonna copy the markup from this example
on Bootstrap to make this pricing table.
I'll inspect.
And then let's see if I can make this larger for you.
I want this right here.
So I'm just gonna right click copy
and then copy other html.
I want the whole thing.
Whoopsies, not just the particular element,
but really it doesn't matter
this is not a course on html or copying and pasting
but I'm gonna paste that inside.
Pretend that I've been working on that all morning.
Okay? So that looks fine enough, right?
And the good news is that if I wanna share this,
if I'm maybe I'm not done,
but I wanna share it with somebody
and push it up to GitHub, I can push this branch up
at any point.
It doesn't matter what other people have done.
Unlike with our first workflow where I couldn't push
anything up until I had pulled down changes to main or
to Master and I had to merge.
And that process repeated anytime anybody pushed new changes
up to GitHub, everyone else has to pull them down and merge
before they can push.
But that's not an issue here.
So now I can push my branch up if I add those changes.
So git add index, git commit, add pricing table.
I'll just go with that.
Okay? And now I can push that branch up,
git push origin pricing table
And we'll go back to GitHub.
And now we have two branches up here
navbar and pricing table.
Okay? So I'm not necessarily suggesting
that every time you make a feature branch
you need to push it up to GitHub.
A lot of the time you won't do that
unless you have a particular reason
and you need to share that feature branch with somebody.
But often if you look at an organization's repositories
they're not going to have thousands
and thousands of branches even
though there have been thousands of feature branches
over the probably a month or a couple of months at least.
There's just tons and tons of new branches all the time.
We don't push them all to GitHub.
If we do, we remove them.
But also just a lot of the time
you don't need to push them up to GitHub
you will merge them in to master or to main at some point
and then just delete the branch when you're done.
So they don't need to stay around
if you end up merging that stuff in.
Anyway, sticking with Colt,
let's say that now Colt gets that Slack message
from good old Stevie saying,
"Hey I pushed up that navbar, could you take a look?
I don't know why it's not working.
It's supposed to collapse and it is,
but it's not expanding on small screen sizes.
I'm not getting the drawers that I'm getting
on the documentation.
Why is it not working?"
So Stevie's just a chicken, what you know
what do you expect?
I'm no expert, but I think we can figure it out.
So what I need to do is pull that branch down, right?
And before I do that, I could just fetch.
So let's, I'm on Colts again, just to be clear.
I can do a git fetch origin
and just get everything from origin, has anything changed?
And yep, it says new branch, navbar.
So we have origin slash navbar
and I could start by just going into detached head.
I'm trying to make this a bit larger here and checking out
if we do git branch dash r,
we see there's this origin slash navbar
remote tracking branch reference.
So I could check that out, git checkout
if I wanted to origin,
origin slash navbar detached head.
But I can take a look and here it is, right?
I can refresh.
This is what's in my working directory
because I'm in this detached head state
and I can verify is it actually broken?
Well, it's collapsing how it's supposed to
but that's not working.
Hmm. So okay, I see Stevie's, right?
Something is going on and I wanna work on that branch.
I wanna make a contribution as Colt on that navbar branch.
So I need to leave detached head.
Let's just go back to where we were.
We can do this git switch dash.
So now I'm back on pricing table.
And then if I want to check out that navbar branch
remember with git switch, it's super simple
I can do git switch and then just the same name.
So navbar, Git will automatically make me that branch
navbar even though it doesn't exist on my machine yet.
And set it up so that it's connected
it's tracking origin slash navbar.
So here we go.
It tells me exactly what I just said.
Branch navbar set up to track
remote branch navbar from origin.
So now I'm working on the navbar,
I'm not just in detached head
and I can start to, you know
try and tweak it and figure it out.
I happen to know what the problem is.
This requires bootstrap JavaScript, which I did not include.
So let's say that was an accident.
Very trivial, simple to fix issue
but most anybody would notice that
in a matter of seconds.
I didn't include the JavaScript file.
So I'm gonna go get that from Bootstrap just right here.
Let's take that script.
Okay, I'm gonna go put it just at the bottom for html.
Now if I refresh, hopefully it works.
And indeed it does.
So we just collaborated Colt and Stevie.
Stevie started the navbar.
Colt hopefully finished it.
I hate saying my name in third person.
Now I'm going to add and commit that change
to the navbar branch as Colt.
So here we go.
Git status, git add index, git commit.
We'll just go with, you know,
add fix navbar bug.
Even though it's really not a bug,
it was just missing the entire JavaScript that it needed.
Anyway, we will pretend I just fixed some bug
for Stevie and this is on the navbar branch.
So now I can push that branch up
git push origin navbar if I want to.
And then I can go back to whatever I was doing
which was the pricing branch, right?
What was it pricing table?
So now I'm back to that.
I'll refresh here.
Completely different thing.
And I can get back to work on this, right?
I can experiment, I could do some radical new thing.
And on GitHub we now have the working navbar.
Hopefully that navbar branch and Stevie can now
go pull that down and maybe keep working on it.
Who knows.
So on Stevie's machine, that's where I am right now.
He hears from Colts that he fixed the bug
in the navbar.
So Stevie's gonna go pull down the most recent changes
or maybe just the navbar branch.
So git pull origin navbar.
Alright, fast forward 'cause there's a new commit.
If we type git log, we see the whole history here.
Most recently we have Colt, fixed Navbar Bug.
And I'm currently acting as Stevie.
And we see if I expand that
the JavaScript is correctly included and if we refresh
hopefully it works on Stevie's machine and it does.
So that's the basic idea.
We're working on branches.
That allows us to collaborate more freely.
We can experiment, try radical changes.
We treat the main or the master branch or whatever branch,
some branch as the the important golden child
branch that we don't wanna screw up.
So we make feature branches, we make all sorts of branches.
It doesn't just have to be for a new feature
but we make branches that we work on
often people just call them feature branches.
The thing that we have neglected to talk about
with working on feature branches is the inevitable merging
of those feature branches.
Or at least some of them.
We need to merge them into the master or main branch.
And how we do this is up for discussion.
That's what we're gonna talk about next.

--- Merging Feature Branches ---

-: So I just spent all that time demonstrating
working on feature branches, but so far,
none of the work that Colt/me did or Stevie did.
None of that work is integrated
into the main branch or the master branch.
So that obviously is an important part of working
on feature branches, is integrating your changes in.
And we have a couple of options for how we do this.
One would just be merge at will,
whenever anybody wants to merge their changes in,
just go for it.
Just merge them into main.
Obviously that could be fraught with problems,
especially on larger teams with lots and lots
of collaborators, lots of new features.
If there's no testing going on beforehand,
if there's no conversation or discussion
going on beforehand, that could get way out of control.
And you would never do that on a real product with users
and you know, things at stake.
Maybe on a fun hobby project with friends, I guess.
So another option that's similar is,
you merge your own branches in,
but only after you have discussed it.
You've sent an email or a chat message
or some sort of, had a conversation
with your team in some way about
whether you should merge those changes in or not.
And then there is the third option,
which is what we're going to talk about in the next video,
something called Pull Requests.
But first, I just want to do another
demonstration of merging.
So if you wanna just get to Pull Requests, skip this video.
But I'm just gonna quickly demonstrate.
On Colt's computer,
we have this pricing table branch, right?
This is what the pricing table branch looks like.
But the main branch currently doesn't have any of this.
So let's say I've talked it over with Stevie.
We're just a two person team,
well one person, one chicken team.
And I say, okay, I'm ready to merge this in, I think.
Let's say Stevie pulls it down,
Stevie takes a look, we consent, all right
let's merge it in.
Somebody merges it in.
Let's say it's me, I'm the owner of the project.
So I'm currently on the pricing table branch.
I'm gonna switch to Master.
Git switch to main--old habits.
And then it's always good to just pull down
to see if you've missed anything.
Do we have any new work from main?
No, we don't.
Okay, so now I'm just gonna merge.
And what is the branch I'm trying to merge in?
Pricing table and it looks like, well easy, fast forward.
So nothing bad, no commits,
or sorry, no conflicts, no merge commit needed.
Fast forward merge.
And we see the pricing table shows up here.
Great, I'll refresh my view here.
I'm now on the main branch.
We see the same thing as before.
Okay, so we just integrated that feature branch
and now I can push main back up to origin main.
So I'm gonna do exactly that.
Git push origin main,
and then we'll go to GitHub.
And now main includes the code from,
no I'm on the wrong branch.
Main includes the code from pricing table.
We see whatever work I had done.
It's now on this branch.
So nothing new. We just merged.
And then on Stevie's side of things, wherever he lives,
the next step for him would be to make sure to
get that new version of the main branch.
Whenever he goes back to main or whenever
he needs that new work, go back to main branch.
So git switch main,
he could fetch or he could just pull,
git pull origin main.
And now Stevie has this new work on his main branch.
He has the whole pricing table and all that stuff.
And then he could merge in his nav bar branch
if they both agree it's appropriate,
he could merge in nav bar into main
and then push that up.
And then Colt would then go pull that down
and we'd repeat over and over.
So that's just a quick version
of merging a feature branch in.
It would be best to delete that branch locally
if we agree that it's, you know, we're good to go.
We merged in pricing table,
we don't need that branch anymore.
Delete it, delete it off of GitHub.
But just to keep things short and easy for you to follow.
If you do take a look at this repository,
I'm not going to delete that branch this way.
You'll just have that history.
And in the next video,
we're gonna talk about the more common way
of merging feature branches in
or requesting to merge them in, which is a Pull Request.

--- Introducing Pull Requests ---

Instructor: So now we get to talk about pull requests.
This is the first of a few videos on the topic.
I'm just gonna start in this video
by talking about what pull requests or PRs are
and why we want them or why they exist.
And then in subsequent videos,
we'll make our own.
Okay, so we talked about this concept of working on branches
and how that makes our life a lot easier.
But then at some point
somebody needs to merge those changes in
from a feature branch into some main branch,
master main, whatever, right?
We don't just stay on separate feature branches forever
otherwise everyone would be working in a silo
and never merging and sharing their code,
which defeats the whole collaboration thing.
So rather than just allowing a free for all merge,
especially if you're at a company where the stakes are high
and you can't afford to screw up something on the main
or the master branch, you have users, you've got,
I mean, even if not that,
if you've got a hundreds of developers
and somebody includes some bad commit
or something that breaks things on the main branch,
at the very least you've got a hundred something developers
who now have a bad version of that main branch
and they have to get rid of a commit or reset.
It's just annoying.
You wanna make sure
that whatever you are merging in
or whoever is doing the merging
has some discussion around it,
has some approval,
maybe changes are made
at the request of somebody else, right?
There's some code review process involved,
and pull requests or PRs are an integral part
of that process.
So pull requests are not a native Git feature.
They are built on top
of platforms like GitHub and Bitbucket and some others.
But really most people are referring to GitHub these days.
But again, not exclusive to GitHub
and 100% not part of Git itself.
So pull requests allow developers
to tell other team members, other collaborators
that they have some new work
that they want to be reviewed,
new work that is on a branch
that they want to be discussed, accepted,
AKA merged in or rejected.
And this facilitates discussion.
They can get feedback,
they can even update the work on the same pull request.
So think of it as,
"Hey everybody on my team, hundreds of people
I have this new branch with this feature I just completed
or I think it's complete.
It's on GitHub.
I'm making this request, this pull request.
Can you take a look at it and somebody,
will you merge it in if it's good,
or will you tell me if it's not good?"
That's pretty much what a pull request is.
So we do some work locally on a feature branch
like we did in the last couple of videos.
Stevie added the nav bar branch, right?
We finished the nav bar,
we push it up to GitHub.
Instead of just merging that directly
into master or into main,
and a lot of companies,
actually the main branch is protected.
I'll show you how to do that.
You can't just merge stuff in.
You actually have to make a pull request
so that there's an opportunity to discuss
and accept or reject your changes.
Somebody makes that decision.
Maybe multiple people actually have to consent
and actually approve of your changes.
So once you make the pull request,
you then have to wait for it to be approved
and hopefully merged or something.
Discussion, it might be closed.
It might be ignored, but hopefully not.
So here's an example with some diagrams.
I'm working on this feature.
I finish it, I push it up to GitHub,
and I wanna open a pull request.
So on GitHub there's this new branch, my new feature,
and you've probably seen this before,
compare and pull request.
It showed up a couple of times
when you push branches up.
That is a button I definitely want to click
to make a pull request,
or I can also click it here.
There's a couple of different ways of doing it.
But if I click pull request,
I then have this option to choose
what pull request am I making?
Well, I am requesting that my branch,
my new feature be merged in to master
or to main or whatever the default
or it could be any other base branch.
But typically we're talking about master slash main.
So then I need to provide some information, right?
I need to come up with a name for what my pull request is.
What's the reason for it?
What does it include?
Depending on the company and the organization
there can be some pretty strict rules
for what goes in here.
And then I can click create pull request,
and then I wait.
So in this hypothetical world of these slides
I have a boss
and my boss is the only one who can approve changes,
who can actually merge pull requests in on GitHub.
There are different ways of configuring permissions
and all of that that we can get into.
But basically my boss has to accept my pull request.
I as just an employee,
I actually don't have the ability to merge directly
into master on GitHub.
I'm supposed to make a pull request.
So my boss finds some issues
and she actually leaves some feedback.
She asked me to make some changes,
pinging me when it's ready.
I can notify people or I can mention people in comments.
I can attach files.
She can even just close this out by the way.
Just close it without comment.
Nope, it's a bit of a blunt way of saying no.
Or she can just leave the comments.
So then I can respond.
We can have a conversation about it, right?
I can say, "Okay, sounds good.
I'll get to work on blah, blah, blah, blah, blah."
Or I can say something like,
"Hmm, are you sure you really want me to do that?
What's the motivation?
I mean, I'm not sure I agree with that.
What do you think other developer?
And then I can bring somebody else in and we can have
a full discussion here as a team, okay?"
I can even make more changes if she requests them.
But then eventually, hopefully
my boss decides things are good to go,
it's time to merge those changes in.
So if she accepts my pull request,
she can then go and click merge pull request
and merge my changes
or whoever's in charge of doing the merging,
merge my branch into the main branch,
the branch I was requesting,
and then we're good to go.
So she'll click that button
and then I'll demonstrate this for real,
not just with slides.
Then she can make the merge commit message directly
on GitHub.
So this is just a mechanism for merging changes in
from a feature branch into some other branch
where instead of just going for it,
we have this process
where we we can have conversations,
we can chat with each other,
we can make updates, request things.
We can reject a suggestion or a pull request,
or we can accept it.
But if my pull request is accepted
the end result is still just my branch is merged
into another branch.
It's just a slower, longer process
that is more transparent and more controlled, I guess,
for merging.
So that's an intro to the concept of pull requests.
I'll wrap up by showing you
that if we look at any popular repository on GitHub
there's going to be a section
for pull requests like this is React,
a very popular repository, lots of contributors.
Those contributors don't just directly push changes up.
They don't even have permission
to directly push changes to any of the branches here.
There's another way of making pull requests.
We're gonna talk about involving something called
the Fork and Clone Workflow.
That will be coming up in a little bit.
It's a common pattern to contribute
to open source projects
where you're not an actual collaborator,
you don't have permission to push.
Anyway, we'll get there.
But if we go to pull requests
we can see quite a few of them here.
And again, there's a lot of structure
and patterns that have to be followed
when you're creating a pull request
for a big open source project.
So they all follow particular naming conventions.
They all have these different tags.
But you can see, here's one,
somebody wants to merge one commit into master
from their feature branch.
Notice the name of this feature branch.
Well, this is not a great one actually
from Dependabot.
If I find another one,
how about this one here?
So this is a pull request from the branch
Rick Hanlon II, Hanlonii, I don't know.
Rh-add-effect-warn-test.
That's the feature branch.
Whatever he did on this branch,
he wants to merge it into master.
And then we see some information
about what his pull request includes.
He wants to add a test
so we can see under commits,
here's the commit, we can view that commit,
what's included, what's new.
So some new code here
and then there's a discussion around it.
So this person said,
"Please, this should probably throw an error,
like how blah, blah, blah, blah, blah."
It's a conversation in other words.
And this one is still open,
meaning it has not been closed or rejected,
but it also has not been merged.
Oh, and there's a lot more conversation here around this PR
and that's kind of a good place to end,
just to show you an example.
So these larger projects have tons of pull requests.
Sometimes it can take a little while to get yours
if it's not super important,
if it's not a critical feature you're working on
it can take a little while to get noticed,
depending on the resources available
to the project maintainers.
Anyway, that's the basic idea of a pull request.
I'll show you the workflow in the next video.

--- Making Our First Pull Request ---

Instructor: So let's now try making a pull request.
We'll use the same repository,
the feature-branch-workflow for Colt
and our chicken, Stevie.
So we have this nav bar branch
that Stevie already pushed up, right?
We can see nav bar right there.
We also have the pricing table branch,
but that's already been merged in.
We didn't use a pull request to do that.
I'm currently working as Stevie
and if we take a closer look at the nav bar branch,
there's this button here, pull request.
So first we can do a comparison between nav bar and main.
Now it assumes that I want to compare with main
because that's a default branch,
but I could make a pull request
to some other branch if I needed to,
I could make a pull request to pricing table.
Just not that common.
So it tells me, all right, here's your comparison.
Good news,
we're able to automatically merge your branch,
nav bar into main if we get to that point.
So it's not going to merge without me clicking merge.
Creating the pull request simply requests that merging.
So we can see there's just two commits, right?
We have the broken nav bar, the nav bar fix,
here's the diff.
We can see all the stuff that I added in,
or Stevie added in.
Anyway, if I decide I wanna make this poll request,
I'll click that button, create poll request,
and then I can put some title in here.
It's just using the the name of the branch.
So how about add in bootstrap nav bar?
Okay, leave a comment.
This is my comment.
I can mention people, like I'll mention Colt.
Please take a look.
So that will actually mention him as a user.
You know, I can have bold text, I can put code in here,
I can do all sorts of stuff,
different formatting and formatted information
but I'm just gonna keep it simple.
So add in boot strap nav bar.
This is my comment at Colt, please take a look.
Here we go, create pull request.
So from my nav bar branch to the main branch.
Alright, so here's the PR.
You can see under PR's or pull requests, we have one,
it's open.
It was created by Stevie Chicks a couple seconds ago
and we can also see the way that this repo is set up,
Stevie can just merge it in.
That probably is not the approach that we want to take.
There are ways to restrict
who can merge branches and organizations,
or who can merge PR's,
but for now anybody can merge it in.
So Stevie could make that PR
and then also just turn around and click merge,
but I'm not gonna do that.
Let's go switch over as Colt.
So we'll refresh the page on Colt's computer
and then we have this PR showing up.
I also got a notification up here.
I dismissed it when I wasn't recording unfortunately,
but I got a notification for
the fact that I was mentioned in this poll request.
So I can respond to Stevie, right?
I can decide one, I can merge it right now if I want to.
I can close it and just say
this poll request is going nowhere.
We're not adding this in to the main branch.
Or I can leave some comments like, you know,
looks good or looks bad.
Could you fix this or add this?
Can you make this change?
And changes can be added to a poll request
after the poll request is originally created.
We can continue to, like in this example,
Stevie could continue to to add to the nav bar branch
and respond to feedback,
but for this demo, I'll do something like, looks good.
Whoops, didn't mean to do caps but merging now.
All right, so I'll leave that comment.
I won't close it.
So I haven't done any,
I haven't taken action, but now I'm going to.
So not every poll request
can be merged automatically on GitHub.
Just like when we're doing merges locally with git,
not every branch merge is a fast forward,
or not every one can be done automatically
without generating any sort of conflicts.
So what I'm doing here by clicking this button
is telling GitHub,
alright go ahead and do the merge yourself.
So then we're going to have some code
that has been merged in on GitHub
that we don't have locally.
So the main branch is going to change.
I'm gonna click, all right,
do I wanna change the commit message?
This is fine.
Confirm merge.
Successfully merged and close this poll request.
The nav bar branch can now be safely deleted.
So let's just delete it now.
Okay, so now we have successfully completed
one part of his workflow where
we went from working on a feature branch, Stevie made it,
and then Colt actually added a commit, he fixed a bug.
We pushed that up to GitHub, we make a pull request.
That pull request was merged in
and now if we look at our index html,
we have the nav bar showing up on our main branch.
So now other developers, everyone on the team,
needs to go and get the latest changes.
So to do that,
and we could fetch or we can just pull origin main.
This is on Colt's machine
and now we should have the nav bar showing up somewhere.
There it is.
We have all that nav bar work from the nav bar branch.
Just take a look at it here.
There we are.
So it's not very nice looking,
but that came from a branch that Stevie created
and pushed up to GitHub.
Then we made that PR and then Colt's accepted it,
merged it in,
and now individual users, collaborators
need to pull down the new main branch
and we could do the same thing on Stevie's side.
So we can get rid of the nav bar branch.
We'll switch to main first.
We can remove nav bar.
So we can do git branch -D nav bar to delete it.
So now it's gone, locally and on GitHub,
and now I can pull down the latest version of main.
So git pull origin main
and our local main branch is updated, we have the nav bar.
I can just show it here.
So there we go.
We have the same end results.
The same thing that we did
to make this pricing table merged into the main branch,
except we did it via a poll request,
an intermediate step that is done on GitHub
where we can have discussion and you know, debate
as to whether something should be merged in
and that's our first intro to PR's.

--- Merging Pull Requests With Conflicts ---

Instructor: So in the last video,
the pull request that Stevie generated
was able to be automatically merged in
with a single button click, right?
We didn't have to do any merging locally on our machine,
it was all done in GitHub,
and then we just pulled down the changes.
But that only happens sometimes,
where the merge can be done automatically.
Just like any merge in Git,
there's always a potential for conflicts.
So in this video,
I wanna show you how you can resolve conflicts
when merging a pull request, okay?
So we need to first start by making a pull request
that will generate a conflict.
And to do that,
and to do things relatively speedily, hopefully,
I'm going to start by doing a tiny change as Stevie.
So, here we are as Stevie.
I'm going to just,
I don't know, let's change the title here
of the entire webpage.
So we'll imagine, you know, we're doing some big task,
we're working on a feature branch,
but really we're just gonna change the heading.
So, let's make a feature branch as Stevie.
We'll call this,
let me make this a bit larger,
how about git, let's see,
we're on main.
Let's do git switch -c,
because we're not gonna work on main,
and then we'll call this new-heading.
Okay, so switch to a new branch, new-heading.
And now we can do some really basic work,
like change the heading here.
Where is that?
Instead of an h1, I'm gonna give it a class of display-1,
which is just part of Bootstrap.
And let's see what it looks like.
Okay, there it is.
And then I'm gonna change the text to be,
I don't know, "Heyo World!"
Oh, how about, actually this is coming from Stevie,
how about just Bock Bock.
Is that how you spell that?
I don't know.
Whatever noise my chickens make,
it's like a bock, bock, bock, bock, bock most of the time.
All right, so that's Stevie's change.
So, Stevie adds and commits this to the branch,
so git add index,
git commit -m "change heading to bock bock" (laughs softly)
All right, so now we can push that up,
or Stevie can push this branch,
git push origin new-heading,
up to GitHub.
Then simultaneously,
I'm not gonna go through the whole workflow
of making a PR as Colt,
I'm just gonna do some changes on the index
directly on the main branch.
Which normally, you know, we should be consistent,
and if we're going to enforce pull requests,
I guess I'm the the owner of this repo,
so I can do whatever I want,
but normally you follow some rules, right?
You're not gonna have two sets of rules,
you're going to ask everyone to use PRs to merge changes in.
But just to demo this faster and not lose your attention,
I will directly edit the file on GitHub as Colt.
Right so, I can just edit a file
and make a commit on the main branch.
So I'm going to edit this,
instead of saying hello world,
where is that heading?
Wait, here it is. (chuckles softly)
Instead of "Hello, world,"
I'll do "Hello there Everyone"
and maybe a bunch of exclamation points.
Okay, then I'm going to save that.
Well, not really save it,
but I'm going to make a new commit.
So, Update index,
sure, that's fine.
Commit directly to the main branch.
Here we go.
So now the main branch has changed,
and Stevie has a branch that was pushed up.
This is still kind of a trivial,
a silly way of creating a conflict,
but there should be a conflict now,
where if I try and make a pull request as Stevie,
I'll take a look, here's my new heading branch.
Let's make a pull request,
Uh-oh, can't automatically merge.
Don't worry though,
you can still create the pull request.
So hopefully you see why we can't automatically merge,
there's a conflict.
Just like if we tried to merge these on our machine
with git merge, it's the exact same mechanic.
So if I wanna make a pull request
to change the heading to bock bock,
'I am a chicken and I changed the heading to say "bock bock"
I hope you like it.'
Okay, so I have a message,
I'll create that pull request from new-heading to main.
And we see that there are conflicts that can be resolved.
So the way that our repo is set up,
anybody who's a collaborator currently
can resolve conflicts,
right, and merge or PR once that's resolved.
I'm going to do it as Colt though, not as Stevie.
That's a more typical workflow,
is somebody submits the PR,
and then it needs to be reviewed.
So I'm gonna go back to Colt's workspace,
and then we see there's a new PR.
Here it is.
And if I want to merge this in,
unfortunately, it's not as simple as clicking a button.
So, I can do a couple of things.
If I click the Resolve conflicts button,
it actually gives me an option to do this in the browser,
which I haven't really done before.
And this, actually for this example,
is super easy to do it that way,
because it's just a single line
that we're keeping or combining.
But rather than doing it in the browser,
I'm gonna show you the good old fashioned way of doing it
that you would do if you had a bunch of files.
This is just one conflict in a single file,
but in the real world you may run into conflicts
across a bunch of files,
hopefully not too many, but still,
it might be easier to resolve them on your own machine.
So, we can click this, "view command line instructions,"
and it tells us exactly how to do this on the command line.
So first, we need to bring the changes in
so we can fetch origin.
So, we'll do that on my machine as Colt.
git fetch origin.
All right, so now we have this new branch reference,
this remote tracking branch.
Let me make this larger again.
Oh, well, that didn't work.
Try that one more time.
Here we are.
You can see, origin/new-heading.
So the instructions now tell me to check out new-heading.
They're using the the checkout command
on the GitHub website,
they don't use git switch yet,
which is the newer way of doing it.
So, we could do this.
We're saying "Make me a new branch called new-heading,
and have it track origin/new-heading."
Or the easier option is just git switch new-heading,
and it will do that for us, as we've seen.
So now that I've done that,
I can see here, I should have "Bock Bock" showing up
in the heading, and I do, I have Stevie's changes.
I am currently checking out, I'm switching,
or I have switched,
to that new-heading branch that Stevie pushed up.
So now, I need to merge in the main branch.
So this approach is,
switch to the new branch, the feature branch,
and merge main into the feature branch,
resolve the conflicts there.
So, just test things out and make sure it works,
and then when we're ready, we're gonna switch over to main
and merge new-heading in.
All right, so let's try that.
git merge main.
This is the main branch,
we know that there's likely going to be a conflict,
although I think I'm missing the latest changes from main.
Yeah, it's up to date because I didn't pull down.
So, let's switch to main.
I'll show you what I mean,
git switch main.
Remember that I updated on main on GitHub,
I changed the heading, and it actually tells me that,
your main branch is behind origin/main.
So we'll do a git pull origin main.
Now we have the latest changes on main.
Now I can go back to new-heading,
and then I can merge main.
So, git merge the new main branch that we have,
it's not new, but the latest version, the latest work,
merge that into this new heading branch.
Now we have the conflict,
so now I can resolve the conflict here.
So, maybe I want both,
maybe I want h1 class equals display-1 from Stevie,
and then I want, I don't know, all these exclamation points?
How about "Bock Bock Everyone!!!!!"
Like that.
So, let's see what that looks like. (chuckles)
Let's refresh.
Okay, great.
So now we need to add and commit the changes.
So git add index,
and we'll just do a useless commit message,
like "resolve conflicts."
Okay, so now, we've merged the changes in,
but we're just on the new-heading branch.
So, we know for sure
that the current version of master, or main,
works when we merged it in with the changes on new-heading,
we've resolved the conflicts,
now we can switch back to main,
and then we can merge in that new-heading branch
that we already resolved the conflicts on,
which is exactly what they ask us to do,
or tell us to do, on GitHub.
So, go back to main,
and then merge in new-heading,
which already has the conflicts resolved,
so we shouldn't get new conflicts.
Now this --no-ff,
that's an indicator that we're telling git merge
to not fast forward if it detects that it can.
Because when we do a fast forward,
instead of making a merge commit as we've seen,
Git will just move the branch pointer to some new commit.
Right? It just moves forward.
And sometimes we wanna prevent that from happening,
especially when we want to preserve
or maintain our specific branch.
We wanna make it clear that there was a branch
merged in here just to have that history.
You don't have to do this part,
but it's just what GitHub recommends.
So, we could just copy the entire line.
We're merging new-heading into main.
Okay, so see, I'm now gonna put a commit here
instead of just a fast forward,
I'm putting a a merge commit in
because I said no fast forward.
All right, and now we just push up to master.
git push origin main.
I said master again, we're using main,
git push origin main.
All right, so now if I refresh this page,
it automatically just, I didn't refresh,
but it automatically detects, successfully merged this PR,
and it's closed now,
and you can delete that new-heading branch if you want.
Sure, let's delete it.
We can also restore it if needed.
And now we merged the PR in that had a conflict.
And the same process would apply if there was one conflict
or tons and tons of conflicts,
we make a pull request, and then resolve the conflicts,
following the instructions.
Basically, pull that code down, or fetch it,
check it out, or switch to the new feature branch,
merge master or main in,
resolve conflicts,
add and commit,
then switch back to master or main,
merge in the now conflictless branch,
and then push that up.
Okay, so now the last thing to do is, as Stevie,
go and get the latest version, right, of the main branch,
we don't have that as Stevie.
So we just need to pull down,
we'll switch to main.
We can remove that branch now, new-heading,
so git branch -D new-heading.
And now, git pull origin main,
we'll get the latest changes from main.
And there's not a whole lot that we got,
but if we type git log, we see,
okay, we got the resolving of the conflict,
merged that branch in, my work was merged in.
So now, our latest version of the main branch
says "Bock Bock Everyone!!!!!" (laughs softly)
And we can take a look at it right here.
And there we are,
so we successfully merged a PR in that had a conflict.
Okay.

--- Configuring Branch Protection Rules ---

Lecturer: So another thing we can do
if we're working on a repository with collaborators
is add in branch protection rules.
So, if we go into Settings,
assuming that you are somebody
who has access to settings
on the repository,
under Branches,
we have, first of all,
the default branch,
you can configure this.
So, if you want to make it,
something else, for example,
if you have main and master
and you realize you only want main,
to be the default,
well, I shouldn't say only,
you can only have one default.
So, if you want to switch that to main,
then you could do that here,
but we already have main as ours.
Or, if we needed to change it in some way,
you can change that default branch.
But then down here,
it says branch protection rules.
Define branch protection rules
to disable force pushing,
prevent branches from being deleted,
and optionally require status checks before merging.
New to branch protection rules, learn more.
So, we're going to add a rule.
We're gonna protect our main branch.
The first thing it asks
is for a branch name pattern.
Now, instead of just a branch name,
it gives us the option of putting a pattern in here
because on large projects,
there may be thousands of branches
that are pushed up or pull requests generated from.
And the organization or the project enforces rules
where they need to be something like,
/feature/blah or /release,
if it's a big release of,
I can't spell release,
but there are different patterns
you could define different rules
for those different types of branches
instead of having to name each one.
But, we're not gonna do that.
We only have our main branch.
So, we'll just put main in there.
And then, I'm gonna do this,
require pull request reviews before merging.
This means that our commits need to be made
to a non-protected branch, basically,
not main and then submitted via pull request.
And then, at least one person which is, (chuckles)
that we've only got two here,
so, only one person needs to approve the PR
before it can be merged.
So, I just wanna demonstrate,
how that would work.
There are other things, right?
Do we allow people to delete
matching branches or not?
But, we're just gonna go
with require pull request reviews.
So, Create.
So now we have this branch rule
that applies to one branch, main.
It is protected.
So, if I try and act as Stevie,
so, I'm logged in as Stevie here
and I want to make a change to the main branch.
First of all, if I try,
let's update even just the README,
directly on main.
I'm gonna start editing this.
So, feature-branch-workflow.
How about Bock Bock?
Okay, I'm going to try
and commit this.
And take a look.
It says you can't commit to main
because it's a protected branch.
Earlier, I showed an example of this
and we could just commit
directly to main, but now I can't.
So, it wants me to make a new branch
and start a pull request.
So, I'm gonna do it just in the browser,
instead of doing it locally.
It would be the same exact process.
Though, I'd make a feature branch,
make my changes, push up the feature branch.
So, this just makes me a feature branch
and I use the default name
it gave me StevieChicks-patch-1.
All right.
So, now I can make my PR
from StevieChicks-patch-1 to main
and I'm going to create that PR,
but I can't merge it.
Look, merging is blocked.
Earlier, when we had made PRs as Stevie,
I showed you that I could just merge it in myself.
There's no real, there's nothing preventing me
from doing it, aside from being a,
I guess a trustworthy developer.
I could make a PR
that did something bad and broke master,
or broke the main branch and just merge it in.
But now, because of the protection rule we set up,
we need, at least, one approving reviewer.
So, I'm gonna go as Colt
and be that approving reviewer, hopefully.
So, here is that PR,
it says it needs a review.
So I can add it, if I want,
or I'm an administrator, right?
I'm the owner of this project,
so I could just directly merge it.
But I'm gonna add a review.
So, adding a review is super simple.
If I'm good with it, can click this.
But I can also add, a note,
a comment about things and say like,
you know, "Always with the Bock Bock, Stevie?
Get a new catchphrase."
I'm joking around here,
but you know,
we can add things in, like that.
We can then start a review.
So, I can just add a single comment, if I want.
Stevie will then be able to see that, over here.
You can see it shows up for Stevie,
I reviewed it.
It says always blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.
He can respond back to me.
(keyboard clanking)
Bock Bock Bock.
Now, I go back to my side.
I may need to refresh here.
There, we see Stevie's response.
Okay, so now, click Review Changes.
I can finish the review and I can approve.
So, I can approve merging the changes
or I can request that he makes additional changes
or I can just leave a comment
without actually approving it.
But I'm going to approve now.
So, that was the review.
It's still not merged in.
So now, at least, one person has approved it,
which is the rule we set up.
You can have it be more,
you can have two, three, four,
however many people you need to approve it.
There's all different fancy permission things
you can get into,
especially if you have an organization setup
or an enterprise account.
Anyway, now, I can merge that in here, right?
That wasn't showing up before.
So, I'm just gonna merge it.
It's a very silly change to make
and I'm gonna confirm that merge
and that will close the PR.
We can delete that branch.
And now, the master branch
that README, contains Bock Bock,
at the very bottom.
Okay, so silly little example.
But, I wanted to show
that we can set up these protection rules
and they're very, very useful,
especially, if you have a bunch of people working on,
you know, one project together
and they're making a lot of pull requests.
And you want to be able
to have some quality control
or some feedback process, in place,
where people can't just, you know,
directly change the main branch.
They, instead, are asked
to make a pull request
and then get feedback
from at least one person.

--- Introducing Forking ---

Instructor: Okay, so we spent a lot of time
talking about pull requests,
but it's a very important feature,
and it's actually going to come up again
in this next workflow I'm going to introduce.
I'm calling it fork and clone, or forking and cloning.
It's a different approach to what we've seen so far.
So this is a workflow where,
instead of just one centralized repository on GitHub,
every developer has their own GitHub repository
in addition to some main centralized repo,
and then individual developers can make changes
and push to their own versions, their own forks,
before making pull requests.
So I'm gonna diagram all this, and hopefully it makes sense.
The whole point of this is that large open-source projects,
projects with lots of contributors,
maybe thousands and thousands of contributors,
they often employ this strategy or this workflow,
where there might be a handful
of actual maintainers and owners of the project.
They're not adding thousands of people
as direct contributors
like we saw with an invite where I could invite Stevie.
I manually went in here.
Where was that?
Manage access, and I invited Stevie.
So they're not doing that for every single person
who wants to collaborate
on React or TensorFlow or something.
Instead, this workflow, this fork and clone workflow,
enables anybody to try and make a contribution.
You don't need permission.
You make your own copy, you try making changes,
and then you make a PR.
Anybody can make a pull request.
So the first concept to understand is forking.
Forking is a feature that is not part of Git itself,
just like a PR is not part of Git.
It is a feature of GitHub
and other similar hosting services for Git repos.
When we fork a repository, it creates a personal copy
of somebody else's repository on our GitHub account.
So we would call the new copy
a fork of the original repository.
So when I click the button to fork a repo,
I'm asking GitHub to please make me
a personal copy of this repo.
This only works if it's a public repo
and we have access to it,
or, I guess if it's a private repo,
you can fork it if needed, but you still need access to it.
So I'll demonstrate this.
I wanna be clear, again, this is not a Git feature,
it's part of GitHub.
So on some repository, this is, for example,
not my repository, clearly.
Automatic Udemy course enroller,
get paid Udemy courses for free.
I don't even know if this is still up or not,
but this is not my project,
but if I wanna work on it, I'm not a collaborator.
Instead, I'm going to click this fork button right there.
So when I do that, notice what the URL or the,
what would you call this?
I guess the breadcrumb is
somebody's username slash the repository name.
When I fork, I click that button.
Now we have a copy that is on my account
called slash automatic blah, blah, blah.
So I still have all the history, all the files,
but I can do my own stuff on here.
I can clone this, I can delete branches.
I can completely break code.
It's totally up to me.
It's just my repo now,
and it's just based upon the original.
So here's the two side by side,
the original and then my fork.
It shows my username, but also,
it says where I forked it from.
And that's just an intro to the concept of forking.
In the next video, I'll demonstrate it,
and then we'll talk about how we can use this concept
to make open-source contributions.

--- Forking Demonstration ---

Instructor: So now I'm gonna demonstrate forking,
well forking and cloning,
because all that forking does is it makes us a copy
of a GitHub repo on our GitHub account, right?
It just makes a copy that we have access
and permission to do whatever we want with,
but that doesn't mean we have it on our machine.
So the demonstration repo
I'll be working with is this 2048 repo.
We actually cloned it a while ago
when I first intro cloning.
It's for this very addictive 2048 game.
It's just a single HTML file,
some JavaScript, some CSS.
Anyway, I can clone it right now
just like any other repository.
But if I clone that and make changes
and make my own commits,
I can't push those up, right?
I don't have permission
unless I ask to be a collaborator somehow.
That's not how this works.
That's not how GitHub works.
So instead, if I wanna make my own changes
and push them up to GitHub,
maybe just to show other people,
let's just start there.
I want my own version on GitHub
where I can totally screw things up
and share it with people,
maybe even add my own collaborators.
I wanna work with my friend who,
I don't have friends these days.
My friend llama lady.
I wanna work with her on our own version of 2048.
We'll use this as a starting point
and then I will fork it or she can fork it
and then I can add her as a collaborator.
So I'm gonna fork it to my personal account.
It takes a moment,
but we should, well, you can already see
Colt slash 2048, my own copy.
I have all the files, I have all the history,
but now I could do things like add my own collaborators
or change the access, you know, protect a branch,
delete branches, whatever I want.
So now I can clone this down to my machine,
so I could clone the original too, right?
There's nothing stopping me. It's a public repo.
But if I clone this one,
when I clone it, the remote will be set up
for me automatically so that I can push up to here
versus with a cloned version of the original.
If I clone this, I can't push up to origin
because origin will be Gabrielle Cirulli.
That will be this account, right?
I can't push to this repo.
I can push to this one.
So I'll copy that URL
and then I'll clone it down to my machine.
So let's get out of here.
Git clone.
All right, so we have that new directory.
2048 git status.
Cool, we see all the files and let's do git log.
I see the full history,
lots and lots of commits,
but also if I do a get remote dash V,
you can see that origin is set to my own fork.
This is my repo on GitHub,
not the original.
So now I can do whatever I want.
I can diverge and make some serious changes.
So let's open this up.
So here it is in the browser
Just the file index dot html.
I'll make some very simple changes, a single commit.
Let's go with, I don't know, 2048 forked like that.
Not an exciting change.
Oh god, that really screwed things up, huh?
Okay, well let's go with 2048
and keep it like that.
Well, maybe we'll just change some styling then.
Very simple.
New background color.
Okay, well I fast forwarded a bit.
I modified some of the CSS.
So now this is what the game looks like.
I didn't really do anything worthwhile,
but can see, you know,
the colors have changed a little bit
compared to the original,
which looked something like that there.
Not for the better necessarily,
but I've changed some CSS.
Okay, so I can make those commits
and do whatever I want locally.
So this is my local git.
I can make a commits on the master branch,
which is where I am by default.
Or I can go to some other branch,
git switch, and I'll just commit
directly to master I guess.
Git add dot git commit dash M,
change color palette.
Cool.
So I have that changed locally,
which I could do on any repo
whether I cloned it or forked and cloned.
You have permission to make commits on your own local repo.
But what I don't have permission to do
unless I own the repository
or I've been granted collaborator privileges,
is push as we already know.
So I own this repository because I forked it.
So I can push up
and push that new change to my fork,
git remote dash V.
So if I push my master branch to origin,
just like that, git push origin master.
Now my new commit is on my fork
and we see change color palette, right?
All the other commits are like years and years ago,
and then 36 seconds to go.
So that's just on my fork.
It has nothing to do with the original project,
aside from the fact that I made my own copy
of the original project and made changes to it,
but I'm not working on this original repository.
I'm working on my fork and I can do whatever I want.
I can add somebody else on here.
We can collaborate, we can destroy this
without ever impacting the original,
without needing permission.
That's the whole point of forking.
So in the next video,
I wanna talk about this workflow
that stems from the ability to fork where we can fork
and then collaborate on an open source project
or just as a team
with a bunch of forks and a centralized repository.

--- The Fork & Clone Workflow ---

Narrator: So by forking,
we've made a copy of the repository
that exists on my account on Colt
and I've made some changes locally.
I pushed them up.
We see the changes.
We did this in the last video.
Where is that commit?
Basic, no, not basic.
Here it is.
Change color palette on this style directory.
Anyway, I have some work
and it actually shows I am one commit ahead
of the original repository that I forked from.
So GitHub is actually telling me automatically,
hey you have some work on your fork
that is not on the original,
and I can just ignore that
and never do anything with the original,
or I can actually share my work or attempt to share it
by making a pull request.
I can make a pull request
from my fork to the original repository.
So I'm not gonna actually go through with it
because I don't wanna bother the creator of this repository
with a dumb, useless pull request that they'll just close.
But you can see it's the same interface.
I can create a pull request with my changes.
I can leave a comment,
I can explain why.
You know,
why I think this should be merged in.
And then the repository owner
and anybody who has merge permissions
can then take my pull request and merge it in
or close it or whatever they want to do.
So that mechanism is really, really important.
This would be a way for me to make a real contribution
not this silly one that I did
but I could make a real contribution
to a project that I don't own.
I don't have permission to push to it,
but I can fork it.
I can make my own suggestions,
my own changes
and then open a pull request.
And that's the basis of this workflow.
So this workflow, I'm calling it fork and clone.
Other people say fork and clone I'm pretty sure.
It's not some official term but it's common enough.
It allows a whole bunch of people to work
on the same project without actually all having permission
and write permissions for the same repository.
So I have some diagrams that I'll be using
to illustrate how this all works.
If we have three collaborators, which is just a subset.
Let's say we have way more on a big project,
potentially thousands of people who want to collaborate.
But here on the diagram I've only included three people,
me, somebody named Taylor and somebody named Lupe.
And then we have the official project repository.
Maybe we're working on React
or some, I don't know,
some big repository that we don't have access to
to directly push or change settings,
we have to make a fork.
So we each fork, that's what the fork is representing.
And then on my local machine, I clone my fork.
So that's what this is indicating.
So I have my fork that I made from
the original project repo.
I clone that down.
So now I have this automatic remote setup called Origin.
Just because I cloned this repository,
the default remote name is going to be Origin.
So origin refers to my fork
that's done automatically when I cloned.
But then I'm gonna set up a second remote,
and this remote is going to be anything I want,
but normally we would call it upstream.
That's a very conventional name.
And it refers to the original repo that we forked.
So this allows me to basically have a place where
I can do my own work and push changes up to.
But also, if there are changes made
to the original repository
on a large open source project like React
there might be new commits and pull requests merged daily.
I want to be able to get those down on my machine.
So even if I can't push up,
I can still pull changes down.
So often upstream or original
will be the name of this remote.
But now we have two remotes.
One going to my fork and one going to the original.
So now if I do some work
I make a new commit or a bunch of commits.
Normally this would be on a feature branch
but for the diagram's sake I'm just doing it
on the main branch or whatever this branch is.
So I make some work or I make some commits.
Then if I want to try and share it
with the repository creators,
I definitely cannot push up because I don't have permission.
So instead, I can push up to my origin, which is my fork.
I can push whatever I want up there.
I can make the whole thing empty.
I have permission to do anything with that
because I own that fork.
So now on GitHub,
I have my fork that I've worked on
and I can make a pull request
just like what I showed you here where I forked 2048.
I can make a PR and ask for my changes to be merged in.
So then if I do that,
open up a pull request,
then it's up to the original
or the official project repo owners,
somebody who maintains it and who has permission
to accept to merge or close my pull request.
And if my pull request is accepted, it's merged in.
So then the next step is basically
show up at work again
and pull down my changes from upstream.
So there's new work that was done on upstream.
I don't have it locally.
So I go and get the latest from the real repository.
I pull that down and then I can do some more work locally,
push that up to my fork,
and then from my fork make a pull request when necessary.
So the whole point of this workflow is to
allow people who don't have direct access,
direct permission to push
or to change anything in a project repository.
They can still collaborate,
they can still make pull requests by forking
and then pushing their changes
to their fork and opening a PR.
So this would be the sort of cycle.
We pull down the latest changes
from the official repo,
that's one remote.
We make changes,
we push them up to our fork
and then we can make a pull request
if we want with suggestions or with our changes
that we want to be merged into the original repo.
And then we just wait and we hope that someone responds.
So here's a short summary.
Fork the project, clone the fork
add our upstream remote,
do some work,
push to the origin
and then open a PR to the original or the upstream.
So I'm gonna demo that again in the next video.
We'll wrap up by just talking about
why this is a good idea in some situations.
This is not a workflow that you may want to use
like on every single project that you you're working on,
but again, at a larger scale where there might be
some project that thousands of people
might be interested in working in,
or even if it's just two or three people
but you don't want to give them access
directly to your repository,
people can still make these suggestions.
They can make their own changes
and hope that you merge them in.
They can make a pull request from their forks.
So this allows us to work with tons and tons of people
without having to have direct collaborators added to a repo.

--- Fork & Clone Workflow Demonstration ---

Presenter: So now I'm gonna demonstrate
this fork and clone workflow on very, very simple terms.
But the workflow is the same.
We're just gonna work on a very silly repository.
So as Colt, one GitHub user,
I'm gonna make a new repository
and I'm not gonna give anybody access or,
well, I'm gonna make it public, of course,
but I'm not going to make anybody a collaborator.
So nobody will be able to push to this.
I'll just call this fork and clone maybe.
Fork,
geez and clone.
Alright, it's public.
I'll put a read me in there.
Okay, and then I'll create this repository.
Okay so now I'm gonna just add, I have my initial commit.
Maybe I'll do one more commit.
I'm just gonna do it on GitHub to keep things simple.
So this,
is a repo to demonstrate
the fork
and clone
workflow.
Sure okay, we'll commit those changes to the main branch.
And there we are.
Okay.
So the next thing that I'm going to do is change people.
I'm going to switch over to Stevie.
Pretend I'm Stevie.
So here we are on Stevie's GitHub.
I'm logged in as Stevie here, Stevie Chicks.
And if I go look at Colt's repositories,
oh I hate looking at this.
I can see fork and clone.
Okay, so this is the original project.
I don't have access, I can't edit things.
I mean I can view it
because it's public and I do want to collaborate.
Let's say I want to, I don't know, I'll add some changes.
I'll make a new file, whatever it is.
There's some change that I wanna work on and suggest.
So I'm gonna fork this repository as Stevie.
So instead of Colt slash fork and clone
hopefully we end up with Stevie Chicks slash fork and clone.
And it takes a moment
but when it's done forking, there we are.
I now am going to copy this URL and clone this as Stevie.
So over here, let me clean this up a bit.
Okay so I'm Stevie here, I'm going to back out.
Sure, I'll just clone it right here.
Make sure I'm not in a repo.
clone, that URL.
Excellent.
So now we have this fork and clone repository.
Very simple, single commit.
No two commits in there from Colt Steel.
And now I have cloned it.
But if I look at my remote, I cloned the fork.
So that remote is just pointing to my fork,
not to the original.
So I can push changes up.
I can do that right now if I wanted to.
But before that I'm gonna just set up a second remote.
And the reason for this, if I go back to my diagrams,
is that I also want to be able to get changes
that Colt's might publish on the original project.
Because my fork is frozen in time
I don't get changes from the original project
after I create the fork.
They are forking, it's a, they diverge right?
So if I wanna stay up to date with what's happening
and I want to get those changes
on my repo from Colt's original,
then I want to have a connection.
I need a remote to refer to that original project repo.
So I'll just go to the original.
So this is the original project.
I'm gonna copy this URL for Colt's version, right?
And then I'm going to add remote.
So it's Git remote add.
And then I'm gonna call this one upstream
because that's a really common name
or original, or something to indicate
this is the original thing I forked and cloned.
This is not my repository, so I'll just go with upstream.
Okay, so now if I do remote dash V, we have two remotes.
I know it's kind of hard to see them here
because they're not on one line.
Let's make that full screen.
Here we are.
Origin goes to Stevie Chicks,
upstream goes to Colt's version.
Okay, so now I'm switching back to Colt for a moment.
Let's suppose that during all of this,
this couple of minutes,
while Stevie has been forking and cloning,
I'm working on this project as well.
And again, I'm just gonna do a very silly simple change.
I'm going to edit this, which we put in here.
Fork and clone,
I,
how about this?
My favorite ice cream flavors.
And then we'll do in no particular order.
Mint.
Well my actual favorite is peppermint,
because that's not that common.
And then we'll say mint chip.
And then let's just leave it at that for now.
All right, so there's my new commit.
I'll go with add ice cream to read me.
Commit changes to main.
So this is happening on Colt's original repository.
Stevie's Fork doesn't have that.
They diverged, they're not in sync anymore.
This is a fork from a moment in time.
So they're not attached.
However,
I can still get those changes
because locally I have those two remotes.
So if I want the latest,
just make sure, git status okay.
Everything's up to date with origin.
But if I want the latest from Colt's repository,
I can do a git pull and then the remote is upstream.
And then whatever branch I'm looking for, I want in main.
So I'll pull down from upstream.
And if I do a quick git log,
we see we have ice cream now.
Add ice cream to read me.
So now I could make some more changes on this potentially.
Like let's say,
what would I want to do
if I just open it over here in my text editor?
Here's the read me file.
Let's do something like,
Stevie's
favorite
ice cream flavors.
And then Stevie is a chicken,
so Stevie really likes mealworm,
maybe like shrimp flakes,
and
sunflower seeds.
Okay, so we make a change, we'll add that commit.
So git add, read me.
I'm doing this all as Stevie.
Blocking that but,
I'm all you know,
I'm working as Stevie the chicken right now.
So git commit.
Let's do something like add
Stevie's,
Stevie Fave ice cream.
Okay, not a great commit message
but trying to keep this quick.
Okay.
So if I wanna make a suggestion
to the original project that they include this,
this new commit that I've made or whatever,
multiple commits.
First of all, normally we'd be working on a branch
and we are on a branch,
but we'd work on a separate branch, a feature branch,
just to keep it simple.
I'm just working on main as well.
So I don't have permission to push this up to upstream
but I do have permission to push to my fork.
So that's what I'm gonna do.
Remember that my fork I labeled,
well I didn't label but the default name for that remote,
is origin.
Make that full screen as Stevie.
This is what I can push to.
I'm not allowed to push to this.
I don't own it, I don't have collaborator privileges.
So I'm gonna push up to origin.
Git push, and then we'll do origin.
And then main, it's just the branch we're working on.
And when that finishes I should be able to refresh
on my fork as Stevie Chicks.
And we see Stevie's flavors are down there.
But at the original does not have it.
You can see I am one commit ahead of Colt's version.
If we just open that in a tab,
this is what Colt's original version looks like.
So we now have this work that we could suggest.
And that's exactly what I'm going to do.
I'm gonna open a pull request.
That's the next step in this diagram, right?
So we make our changes,
we push them up to our fork,
and then I pull request,
I make a pull request to the original project.
So as Stevie, I'm gonna make that pull request.
Thankfully it's a very easy one to merge.
I'm gonna ask
please,
please allow this in.
Please,
I'm just a little chicken.
I want to
make this PR
bock, bock.
Alright, so then I'm going to create pull request.
Take a look here.
Specifically, I'm going from main to main.
It's not that common.
Normally we'd be working on a feature branch.
We saw how to make a pull request
from a feature branch in the last,
what, a couple videos ago?
So it's the same process.
You just change the branch.
We just don't have a different branch
to pick from right now.
So from my fork to the original.
Main to main, here's my comment, please.
Here's my pull request.
Alright, so I can't merge that in.
I don't have access.
I'm not the decider.
But I just wait here and I hope that I hear back,
maybe some feedback.
I hope it's not just closed,
but it may be.
Now as Colt's, I'll go to pull requests.
I'll refresh and we should see a new pull request.
And here it is.
I am the only person in charge.
I get to review and decide
if I want to merge this in or not.
And let's say that I'm happy with it.
So I will merge it in.
Confirm.
Now I have successfully merged in that pull request.
So that means that fork and clone on my account Colt,
now has the new information from Stevie's.
And so now we have completed this cycle at least one time.
So Stevie made some changes,
pushed them to the fork, made a pull request.
The pull request was accepted and merged in.
And so now this original repository has Stevie's changes.
So this process is all over the place
with open source development.
If we just take a look at any big git repository,
let's take a look at, here's React.
Right, we can see lots and lots of contributors.
I mean used by millions of people.
And if I go to pull requests,
I showed this a while ago, lots and lots of pull requests.
And if we look at where the
pull requests are originating from,
let's just pick any of them.
It doesn't really matter.
Sure this one.
Notice that it says,
this person AriPerkkio
wants to merge one commit into Facebook master branch
from Ari's particular fork and then a feature branch.
So notice that the prefix, right?
Facebook master versus AriPerkkio,
sorry if you're watching this Ari.
You're probably not watching this but,
anyway, that's a fork.
So this is a fork that was made and
we can go take a look, here is that fork.
This is Ari's fork of the original react.
And they made a pull request.
And now they're just waiting.
Is there?
Yeah, well they're not even just waiting.
There's a conversation happening
about this pull request, but it's still open.
So that's the basic workflow,
and that's how all of these contributors
are making their contributions.
They're forking and then making
a pull request over with their changes.
And then to stay up to date
with what actually changes on the official repository,
remember this step.
Pulling down to get the latest changes
from the official project repo
so that you are up to date with the work
everyone else has merged in.

--- Why is Rebasing Scary? Is it? ---

Instructor: I wanna start this section on
rebasing by telling you a little bit
about my own personal history with rebasing.
It's a command.
Git rebase is the command.
That, there's a bit of a divide over in the Git community.
Some people use this command all the time.
Some companies ask that their developers
use rebase all the time.
Others avoid it like the plague.
When I first started, when I first learned Git,
I was actually told by the person I was learning
from to try to avoid rebasing ever.
"Don't worry about it.
It can really screw things up for you
and for other people on your team.
It's not for beginners."
And some of that is true for sure,
but it was kind of, I don't know, a scary command for me,
and I avoided it for quite a long time, for many years.
And I got by just fine with Git.
I didn't really run into many issues.
Maybe there was once or twice I had to use it
but I would just Google, you know,
what I needed to do and find something on Stack Overflow.
It just wasn't something I needed to do frequently.
Anyway, one day I was teaching a bootcamp a couple years ago
and a student asked me about rebase in front
of the rest of the class and I was not all
that prepared to give him a good response.
So I went home, did more research, came back,
gave a the lecture the next day.
Anyway, doesn't really matter.
But long story short, I use rebase all the time now.
It can be very useful
but you have to know when not to use it.
There's a golden rule of rebasing
and we will focus on that in this section.
So there's a divide within the community
because rebasing is an alternative to merging.
There's two different things really
that people do with rebasing.
The first one is you can use Git rebase instead
of Git merge.
So some people like to do that and they'll use Git rebase
or some companies will ask their developers
to use Git rebase instead of merging.
But other people get by just fine
with Git merge and they avoid Git rebase.
So there's two big workflows for combining branches.
One is rebasing and one is merging.
We'll talk about that starting in the next video
and then the second use case for rebase is
to clean up your own commits, clean up your Git history.
We'll talk about that too towards the end.
All right, so you can get by
with just merging things as we have been doing.
Rebase is not, in my opinion,
one of the essential commands that you just have to know.
As I said, I used Git for quite a while
without really rebasing all that much,
but it's definitely worth knowing about
and these days I think it's gaining in popularity
or at least equal to the Git merge crowd.
Okay, so let's begin.

--- Comparing Merging & Rebasing ---

Instructor: So as I mentioned,
there are two main things that we can do
with the git rebase command.
We're gonna focus on the first of those things
using it as an alternative to the git merge command.
So both commands git merge, git rebase
help us combine changes from two branches.
Okay, so I'm gonna start by identifying the I guess
you could call it the problem with merging
or something that rebasing addresses, that merging does not.
So imagine that I'm working on a project
with let's say, 10 different developers.
I'm at work and we're working on
some big code base together, 10 of us, okay?
So we have our master branch
and there's a million commits before it that you can't see.
Well, maybe a couple thousand commits.
Then it's my turn, we have stand ups,
it's my turn to work on a new feature this morning.
Well, everyone works on a new feature,
but it's time for me to start a new feature.
So I make a new feature branch, we'll just call it feature.
And I do some work on that feature branch, right?
So there's a new commit or two or maybe more.
Continue doing more work,
we end up with more commits on my branch.
But in the meantime, maybe a couple hours pass,
maybe it's lunch and one of my other coworkers
finish their task, their bug fix
or their new feature or whatever,
and that code is merged into master.
Now, probably they make a pull request
or if there's some mechanism in between,
but the end result is that their changes
are merged into master.
So I probably want that new work
on my feature branch, right?
Maybe there's a bug fix in there or something.
I don't wanna diverge from the master branch
for a super-long time without getting those new changes.
So how do I get that new commit?
Hopefully this is nothing new.
How do I get that new work from the master branch
onto my feature branch?
Well, I merge, right?
So this cannot be performed as a fast forward merge.
We end up with a merge commit.
That purple background with a green or whatever cyan color,
that's supposed to indicate a merge commit.
So there's a merge commit on my branch
and then I keep doing some more work, right?
And then what do you know,
as I'm doing more work
the next day on my feature branch
there's more new work added to the master branch.
Another coworker pushes up some changes.
Maybe it's even more than one.
Maybe it happens five or six times in a day,
depending on what they're fixing or working on.
So I need to get those commits onto my feature branch
or I need to know about them.
So I do the same thing, I merge,
and yet again I have a new merge commit, right?
So as I continue to work, imagine that instead of what
five commits here or something,
I have a whole bunch of commits on my branch,
my feature branch,
maybe I'm working on it over the course of weeks,
not just days.
And the rest of the team is very active.
So we have a very active master branch,
lots of changes happening in the meantime.
So I need to continuously merge those in
and I end up with all these merge commits.
So my entire feature branch
might have dozens of merge commits
that don't actually say anything about what I'm working on,
they have nothing to do with my actual code
or with my commits.
They just have to be there, because I merged, right?
We don't have a way around that.
So again, try and visualize this on a much larger scale.
So instead of just the small number of commits
I can fit on this one slide in a tiny diagram,
imagine that I'm merging pretty frequently
just to get those changes from master
whatever my coworkers are doing.
And if it's a very, very active project
that could be a lot of merging onto each feature branch.
And my coworkers all have to do that too, right?
I'm not the only one.
They're all working on features.
And if everyone else has merged changes into master
they need to get those changes onto their feature branches.
So everyone's feature branches might be riddled
with a bunch of merge commits,
and then when they merge those back into master,
there's just a bunch of useless merge commits
as part of the history.
I shouldn't say useless, but they're not informative, right?
The commits might be something like fix x bug,
add new feature, remove X file,
and then merge commit, merge blah branch, right?
That's just sprinkled in there
and that makes our history
more annoying, muddier, less clean.
So that is something that rebasing can help us with.
So I'm gonna show an example repo,
we'll set it up in the next video,
but I'll just show you on slides for now,
if we rebase instead.
So rebasing is just another way
of combining branches instead of merging.
What happens when we rebase
is that we actually rewrite history.
And this is why it's sometimes problematic.
We are rewriting history, we're creating new commits
or we have git create new commits for us
based upon the original feature branch commits.
So here's the diagram, the same diagram from before up top.
Here's my feature branch, this is what happens when I merge
in all those changes right from the master branch
and I get multiple merge commits.
But if I use rebase,
so I'm going to rebase the feature branch
onto the master branch.
Think of the term rebase as re...
Well, that was, I was gonna say re-base.
Yeah, that's exactly what it is.
We are coming up with a new base for our feature branch.
So what we end up with is this linear structure.
We will go into detail again on how this all works
and I'll demo it, but notice a linear structure,
we have the master branch
and then we have our feature commits
from that feature branch on top of the master branch
added to the tip of that master branch.
So we don't have these merge commits, right?
We have the same original the three commits
I did on the feature branch,
the four commits from the master branch,
but they've actually been rewritten.
So this doesn't indicate the time where things were made,
where commits were created.
Each commit actually has a date.
So that is preserved, but commits are moved around
in order to give us this new structure.
So all that feature branch work I have done
all those commits begin at the tip of the master branch.
So I don't have these merge commits anymore,
but the end result is that whatever
I'm working on here
contains all of the commits from master and from feature,
just like it does right here.
It's just a different mechanism.
And here's a similar example
where instead of having these merge commits, I just wait.
So I have my feature branch
and then I want to get the changes from master
combine them with feature, those new commits,
I can rebase in order to end up with this structure.
My feature branch has a new base
at the tip of the master branch.
So it begins where master ends
and we end up with this nice structure, linear, it's cleaner
and it's more focused, right?
The history here, someone can see very quickly
these are the commits that had to do with my branch
and the changes I made
versus here those commits are still there,
but there's these merge commits that are in the way.
So if we multiply that by 10 people
working on feature branches, merging all the time,
that's a lot of merge commits.
But if they all rebase in the correct way
it's a lot easier to see what's going on
with their individual branch history.
All right, so I'm gonna demo this
in the next couple of videos.

--- Rebase Demo Pt 1: Setup & Merging ---

Instructor: So in this video, I'm gonna demonstrate
this merging workflow we've already seen
and then we'll set things up
so that we can then rebase and see a difference.
Otherwise, if I just show you rebasing on its own,
it's a little bit harder to see how it compares.
All right, so I'm gonna make a new,
I already made a folder called RebaseDemo.
I'm gonna keep this extremely simple,
in terms of what my commits are and the history I create.
Currently, no git repo, so I'm going to init
and I'll just work on the default master branch for now.
And let's say that we're working on some projects
called, I don't know, website. (chuckles)
Website is gonna be a text file, just to keep things simple.
All right, so I'll add that file,
I will commit, just "initial commit."
Just like that, nice and simple.
All right, so we have our website file open.
I'm not gonna be typing code, I'm just gonna pretend.
We'll do something like, NAV BAR ADDED. (chuckles)
That's the equivalent
of somebody actually adding a navbar in, all right?
So now I'm going to commit that, just -am "navbar".
How about, "add navbar".
Okay, so now I'm gonna switch over to a feature branch.
We'll imagine that I'm working on this feature branch,
whatever the feature is,
I'm just gonna call it feat, just like that. F-E-A-T.
So I'm on this branch,
I'm gonna be working in a separate file,
just to minimize conflicts.
I'll also talk about what happens
if we do have conflicts when we rebase.
Anyway, what should my file be?
Let's just call it feature.txt.
All right, so I'm gonna make this incredibly basic.
As I said, I'm gonna add feature, just to start,
git commit -m, you know, and "begin feature".
Begin feature, okay.
And then, I'll do one other change in the feature.
I think my changes in here are just gonna be numbers, right?
So ONE, and then I'll go back, git commit -am, you know,
"work on feature."
Okay, so I'm now gonna switch back to master,
git switch master.
There's no feature file and no feature branch, right?
We're on master.
Let's say that somebody adds the footer.
So this is new work someone has done in the meantime, right?
So I'm working on my feature branch, I have some commits,
then changes are merged into master
that I don't have on feature.
So that's what I'm doing right now.
The footer was added.
So I will do a git commit -am "add footer."
Okay, so here's what things
look like in GitKraken, currently.
So we have our master branch
and then we have the feature branch.
If I wanna keep working on my feature branch,
but I want the latest work from master,
we'll pretend it's coming from, you know,
somebody else did this work, not just me.
I want that on my feature branch.
I could do a merge on feature.
So merge master into feature.
And that's what I'm gonna begin with.
Exactly what I did here,
where we end up with a merge commit on feature.
So I'm gonna do that.
So I'm on master right now, right?
I'm just gonna take a look at my log.
We have three commits on master,
but if I switch back to feat,
I want to merge in the changes from master.
So git merge master, I'm on the feature branch.
So again, see what it looks like right now, right?
I've diverged, there's new work on master.
I want that on my feature branch.
I'm not done with the feature,
but I want the latest work from master.
So it prompts me in my editor here,
or if you don't have your editor configured,
it'll prompt you here in your terminal
with whatever your default editor is.
I'm going to just close this, it's just a merge commit.
So now, we have this merge commit, right?
Right there, merge branch master into feat.
You can see what it looks like here,
we have this merge commit right there.
Okay, that's not too bad I guess.
So I keep working on my feature.
Let's say I get to, TWO, whatever TWO is.
That is more work on my feature.
So I'm trying to just keep this super simple.
All right, "more work on feature."
Okay and then in the meantime,
let's say that took me, like, half a day.
Go back to master and we'll pretend we're other people,
on master, a coworker finished some feature
they're working on, LOGIN FORM ADDED, right?
So I will add that, just to pretend I'm one of them,
or I'll just do a commit -am "add login form."
And the feature I'm working on,
actually it would be really useful
if I had that login form on that feature branch.
So once again, I could do the same thing, right?
I could go onto the feature branch
and merge master into feature.
So I'm gonna do that.
'cause now there's a commit that I don't have.
So I go back to feature, git switch.
And then, I'm gonna do a, just git status,
make sure I don't have any uncommitted stuff,
git merge master.
So here's what it looks like now.
Here's my commit on feature that does not exist on master.
Here's the commit on master, the new work, the login form.
I want to merge that in to my feature branch.
So I'm still not touching, I'm not changing master.
Well, I am for this demo, but my feature branch
is not merged into master at any point.
I'm still just working on feature.
So once again, it generates a new merge commit.
And now, my history here, right?
It doesn't look super bad, 'cause it's small.
There's not a lot of merge commits,
but there's another merge commit on my feature branch.
And if I look at my history, git log, right?
I have all this work, but then I have merge branch
and then some more work, some more work.
And then merge branch again.
So the history of my one feature branch that I'm working on
is already cluttered and I just have two merge commits,
but as I do more work on this one feature
and as the master branch continues to change
and there are more and more commits added onto it,
I end up with a lot of merge commits
if I want to stay up to date.
If I want my feature branch
to have the latest work from master.
So we end up with this sort of scenario,
where my feature branch constantly has merge commits,
the history is cluttered, it's muddied,
it's uglier, it's harder to follow.
Now, this isn't a huge deal, right?
It's not the end of the world.
But on a really large project with lots and lots of commits,
it can be way nicer if you have a clean commit history,
or a clean project history,
where the commits are grouped together in a logical way
and you minimize the number of those merge commits.
So that is what rebasing helps us do.
In the next video,
I'll actually use the commands that we talked about briefly
to show you how to rebase so that we don't end up
with these merge commits, but instead we end up
with this nice, linear history by rewriting it.
So that's coming up.

--- Rebasing Demo Pt 2: Actually Rebasing ---

Instructor: All right, so we finally get to try
the rebase command.
I'm gonna do exactly what I'm showing you in this diagram.
Currently I have my feat branch, feature,
whatever that feature is,
where I have twice merged in changes from master.
So my master branch still doesn't have any
of the feature stuff.
That's fine.
I don't wanna directly merge anything into master right now.
Instead I'm just concerned about getting the changes
from my co-workers that are constantly adding to master
even if it's not constant,
let's just say frequently in a given week, updating master.
Pull requests are merged in,
I need that work on my feature branch,
so I merge from master into feature,
but that gives me merge commits.
So instead I'm going to rebase,
and again, when we use the git rebase command,
we are rewriting history.
So this is the actual history of our commits.
But when I rebase, things get switched around a bit.
In fact, we get new commits generated.
So instead of creating merge commits for us,
when we use git rebase, it rewrites history,
it creates brand new commits
for each of the original feature branch commits.
So the workflow here looks like this.
I want to be on my feature branch,
and then I call, or I run git rebase master.
So this is not going to screw up
or change the master branch,
instead it's going to rewrite history
by taking my feature branch commits,
creating new ones that are based on the originals,
and putting them all at the tip of the master branch,
or starting them at the tip of the master branch,
rebasing them at the tip of this master.
So all that work,
however many commits I have on my feature branch,
that work is not gonna be destroyed or anything like that,
but the commits are going to be recreated,
and they're going to be added
to the tip of my master branch,
so we end up with a linear structure.
We still have two branches, of course,
because a branch is just a pointer, right,
with just a reference,
but now we don't have these merge commits where,
we don't really need to go into it now,
but each one of these merge commits has two parents.
Here every commit has a single parent,
except I guess the first commit on the master branch.
So let me demonstrate this.
As we saw, we already have merge commits
so we can rebase now,
I'm showing you sort of merging first and then rebasing,
but you can actually rebase instead of merging,
I'll show that.
So here's our structure right now.
I'll zoom in as much as I can in post-production.
So we have master branch here on the right,
feature here, and we have these merge commits.
So instead of this structure, I'm going to rebase,
and I guess what I'll start with is
I'll show you these commit hashes,
maybe I'll take a screenshot of them.
Okay, now I'm gonna run this command.
So I'm on the feature branch.
Let's say I make sure I get the latest changes
on the master branch, I pull down from GitHub on master,
I've got the latest that whatever co-workers have merged
their code in.
Now I'm going to call git rebase,
if I can type it, master,
and I'm calling this from my feature branch.
Okay, so take a look at this output.
Rewinding head to replay your work on top of it,
so on top of master,
and then it applies my commits, my three commits.
So let's see what that looks like.
So I'll zoom in here, hopefully I do follow through
and zoom in in post-production,
and our structure has changed pretty radically.
So all of my work is still here.
We still have those three commits I made on feature,
we just don't have those two merge commits.
So now things are linear.
We still have two branches, of course,
but we've created new commits,
or Git has created new commits for us
based upon the original commits on the feature branch.
So if I type git log now,
first I'll just show you,
still two branches, master's unchanged.
But now if I type git log, I'll do one line.
We have fewer commits
because we don't have those merge commits,
and the commit hashes have changed
because we actually end up with new commits.
So the original commits on the master branch are unchanged.
2be, 2b3,
34f, 34f, right?
What else is on master?
Add footer, e19, e19.
Anyway the three commits that I made on the feature branch,
however, like begin feature, if we take a look at it
on the original screenshot I took,
889, very different,
it's a completely new commit, 907.
So I rewrote history, I made new commits.
The work is still there, right?
I still have those commits, the commit messages,
and actually the dates are still in there, the metadata.
But they are in fact new commits.
It's not just an update to a commit, it is new history.
So what this does though is
hopefully you can see it cleans up my history
for this feature branch significantly,
and it makes it easier to see what I've done,
the actual work on this branch
because it's all here now,
it's not mixed in with that work from master,
even though the code is all there together.
But the commits are all together, they're condensed down,
so I can see, oh, this is what I've done, right?
Those are the commits I've made on this branch
versus originally, let me pull that screenshot up again.
If we look here, we've got this from the master branch,
and then this on the master branch, feature branch,
feature, master, this is on feature,
it's a merge commit, feature, master, feature.
Versus here it's just master, master, master, master.
Those four.
And then feature, feature, feature.
Master branch, master branch, master branch, master branch.
And then feature, feature, feature.
Okay, so that is our first example of using rebase.
We've done exactly what these diagrams showed,
but I also wanna show that we can just use rebase
instead of merging.
For example, if we quickly make another change
on the master branch.
(instructor typing)
So we're on the master branch,
what else is added?
Login form.
How about image gallery added?
I don't know, really,
this is probably not how you would break up development.
But anyway, let's just do something obvious
like that image gallery added.
So I'm gonna do a commit on the master branch,
(instructor typing)
add image gallery.
(instructor typing)
So that's something a co-worker does.
I switch back to feature.
I don't have that, right?
So now we've diverged again,
we don't have this linear structure,
and if I want that work that I just pulled down
from GitHub, let's say that a co-worker did,
I want that on my feature branch
that I'm currently developing, I wanna stay up to date,
instead of merging, I'm now going to rebase.
And the end result will be what I just showed you
in the previous example where we rebase the feature branch
on top of master.
So instead of merging and having a merge commit here
on the feature branch,
our three feature branch commits are just moved
on top of that last master branch commit.
So we rebase it on the tip of the master branch.
Okay, so I don't have this commit on my feature branch
about, what was it again?
Image gallery.
I don't have that on feature branch,
but I'm going to switch to it, I'm currently on it,
so make sure of that, we're on feature.
Oh, and if I wanted just to check,
what's the difference, right?
I can do git diff feat master,
and quickly see I don't have this image gallery added.
I mean we know that,
but if there was more work I would see there's a bigger diff
between feature and master, or vice versa.
So I'm going to rebase, git rebase master,
I'm on the feature branch.
Okay, so this is the current structure what we see,
and git rebase master, here we go,
rewinds head to replay our work,
and this is what we end up with.
So even though there was just one new commit on master,
this add image gallery commit,
all of my commits on feature were recreated,
they're new commits,
and I didn't take a screenshot of the commit hashes,
but these are different from what they were
just a moment ago,
because these are new commits based on the original commits.
And so now we're back to this linear structure, right?
So I can do this instead of merging, right?
I don't need to merge, I can only rebase,
or I guess, as I showed you originally,
you can merge, merge, merge,
and then at the end say,
okay, I'm gonna rebase now before I share this with people.
I don't want them to see all my merge commits.
It really depends on the workflow,
and we'll talk more about the pros and cons,
and especially about the golden rule of rebasing,
which is when not to rebase.
So hopefully this is becoming a little bit clearer.
When we rebase a branch,
we are basing that branch on the tip of another branch.
So if we switch to whatever branch, our feature branch,
we rebase onto master, that's the part that sometimes
I see students get confused about,
they think git rebase master means
you're actually rebasing in the master branch,
but in fact we are rebasing onto master in this case.
So our feature branch commits are recreated,
new history is made,
and it all begins at the tip of the master branch.
And we end up with this nice linear structure.

--- The Golden Rule: When NOT to Rebase ---

Instructor: In this video,
we'll quickly talk about why you might want to rebase,
we've kind of already touched on it,
but also most importantly, when you should not rebase,
what the golden rule is of rebasing.
So why rebase instead of merge?
Imagine this repo is way more cluttered.
Well, not cluttered, but there's a lot more history,
hundreds of commits and a lot of simultaneous work going on.
We can see with the way I've structured this very clearly
what work I did on the feature branch.
It's these three commits right here because we rebased.
So it doesn't matter if a whole bunch
of, let's say, there's 10 or 50 or 100 other commits
from the master branch and they happen simultaneously
over the course of development
that I was working on feature.
Assuming that I get those changes,
I pull them down to master,
and I rebase onto the master branch,
my feature branch commits
are all located together at the tip.
This makes it easier for someone to review my commits
and take a look at the code base
and try and read what's going on.
In open source projects with thousands of contributors
and tons and tons of work all the time,
this makes it easier for some random person
to go read the history,
go try and understand what did this feature do, right?
I don't have to see like a million merge commits
as part of the commit history.
The end result is the same.
I guess I didn't really actually show you the code here,
but we still end up with the code
coming from the master branch
mixed in with a feature branch.
So we have IMAGE GALLERY ADDED.
It's just the actual history that is updated.
So because we are updating the history,
because rebase rewrites commits, there is a big no-no,
a big thing you should be aware of,
you do not ever wanna rebase commits
that other people already have.
So you don't wanna rebase if you've pushed up some branch
to GitHub or somewhere else
and you collaborators have that work on their machine,
because then they have those commits,
and then all of a sudden you rebase
and you rewrite those commits, you rewrite history,
that is a nightmare, it's not a nightmare,
but it can be really, really annoying to reconcile
when your collaborators have different histories.
You have commits that just don't even exist in their history
and they have commits that don't exist in yours,
and it's all in the past.
That can be very tricky.
So again, the rule, never rebase commits
that you've shared with others.
So what this means is, you wanna be rebasing commits
that you have on your machine and other people don't,
so your feature branches that you're working on.
You don't wanna rebase the master branch
because people, presumably,
have that master branch or the main branch,
they have commits that you have.
So if you rewrite those commits and they're totally new,
that's a problem when you try and push up.
So you don't wanna do that,
at least that's the general principle.
So you work on a feature branch,
whatever you're doing in there, fixing a bug,
adding a new feature, whatever it is,
you can rebase your work from that branch
onto the master branch or onto another branch, right,
you're not changing the master branch.
You don't change the branch
that you are rebasing onto, right?
We didn't change the master branch here.
We only changed my commits on the feature branch.
So that's important.
The branch that you are on when you call rebase
is the one that is rebased, as we talked about.
Let's go back here.
Here I'm on the feature branch.
I rebase onto master, that's fine.
I'm not messing up master,
I'm not changing the history on master.
I'm only changing the history on my feature branch,
I'm changing those commits.
So that's okay.
You just want to avoid rebasing commits,
rewriting history that other people have.
So once you've pushed that feature branch up,
if somebody has pulled that down, if they have that history,
if they're working on it,
eh, you don't wanna rebase.
At least that's a general rule I recommend.
Again, there are ways of fixing this, but it's not fun.
All right, so that is kind of why a lot of people
shy away from rebase or why I was told not to use it
because you can get yourself in situations that are hairy.
If you're collaborating with people,
you're rewriting history.
And if you don't know how to properly use rebase,
that can be a big problem.
So make sure you know what you're doing.
And if you're working at a company,
like they're gonna make it very clear to you
what the workflow is
and if they expect you to rebase everything
or to never base and only merge or rebase in X situations.
It's just part of learning,
you know, the Git workflow at a particular company.
But on your own, if you're working on your own projects,
just you, then you can rebase all the time of course.
But also, even if you're just on a small team,
rebase all the time,
just make sure you know what you are rebasing,
and don't rebase shared history
any commits people already have.
Only rebase stuff that is yours and yours alone.
Rebase it and then you can push it up, right?
You get this nice clean history.
You don't have all those merge commits.
Do that, and then you can share that.
So I'll show another example of this next
with some conflicts if you wanna see how that works.
It's the same principle roughly
as resolving merge conflicts when you're merging,
but I'll demo it anyway.

--- Handling Conflicts & Rebasing ---

Instructor: When we rebase, we can end up with conflicts
just like when we merge.
We're combining history,
we're combining branches together.
That can lead to a merge conflict.
So I'll just quickly demo that.
We are on the feature branch.
Let's change something on our website file.
How about, I don't know,
let's change this line that says footer added.
Let's change it to say, what should we do?
I don't know.
How about, how about this?
Instead of login form, we do log out form, added.
I don't know why you need a form to log out, but sure.
And then instead of navbar added,
let's do top navbar added.
Okay, not very exciting, but there we are.
So I'm gonna add that and commit.
And let's just go,
let's say like update website on feature branch.
I'm just putting on feat there,
so you can see it in the message.
You normally don't say what branch you're working on
in a commit message, but I'm just doing that here
so that we can see it.
Now I'm gonna switch to master, right?
And I'll do some more work on one of these lines.
So instead of saying top navbar, I'll say,
I don't know, main navbar.
And instead of log out, I'll do, hmm,
what should we say here?
Sign up form?
How about that?
Sign up form added.
So we should have some conflicts, right?
And then we could even add something else.
We'll let's start with that.
Git commit dash am or on the master branch.
Update copy on master.
Okay, so now I'm gonna switch back to my feature branch.
Let's do a tiny bit more work.
Three, git commit dash am, right, more work on feat.
All right, so here's what our history looks like
in GitKraken.
So we have a divergence,
if that's the right way of saying that.
We have our feature branch, which has some work.
It's not a master, of course, quite a lot of work.
But then, master has new work.
We'll pretend we pulled that down.
We didn't just type that ourself
because that would be very stupid what I just showed you
in the real world.
But whatever that work is, it's coming from GitHub.
We pull it down.
It's a new feature our collaborators added in.
I want that on feature.
So I'm on the feature branch.
I will rebase instead of merge.
Git rebase and then master.
And uh oh, look at this output.
Slightly different, right?
So it tries, it recreates all of our commits
from the feature branch, rebasing them on the master branch.
But then it gets to this, conflict,
merge conflict in website.txt,
failed to merge in changes.
And if we look at our history, hmm, look at that.
It is a partial rebase if you can see.
I'll zoom in.
So we have the feature branch, which is here,
and it started to recreate our commit.
So we have begin feature, we also have begin feature.
We have work on feature, work on feature.
We have more work on feature, more work on feature.
So the rebase is not done.
So I have a couple of choices.
One, I can just abort the whole thing.
It tells me exactly what to do.
Here we are, to abort and get back to the state before,
run git rebase, dash, dash abort.
But basically, we are part of the way through rebasing.
So it made new commits, some new commits,
but it had a conflict.
So we need to resolve that.
So it tells us in this case,
it's just one file, website.txt.
I'll go in there, and I have to decide what to keep,
what not to keep just like I would
with any conflict or regular old merge conflict.
So what should I do here?
Let's say I want top navbar, but I want sign up form,
so I can just, you know, manually do this.
I'll do, get rid of that.
I don't want main navbar.
I want top navbar.
So I can just manually reconfigure.
I'm kind of just combining from two branches.
I could have just gone with one or the other, of course,
and often, that's what you do.
But in this case, I'm gonna manually just combine them.
So footer and then I want signup form.
Okay.
And then image gallery as well.
All right, so that's kind of a messy way of resolving it.
But that is the new version of this file that I want.
Okay.
So now it tells me, hopefully, you can see this.
What I need to do is mark them as resolved by adding them.
So git add the file, and then run git rebase,
dash, dash continue, make this larger.
Okay, so if I type git status,
it tells me rebase in progress.
Here's the commit that it's on.
It tells me exactly where it is in this rebasing.
So I'm going to add website
because I fixed the conflict in there.
Okay, but I'm not gonna commit.
I'm going to run git rebase,
dash, dash continue.
So this is where you wanna just pay attention
to the output, right?
We just follow the instructions.
It says all conflicts fixed.
Now run this.
Or I can abort the entire rebase using dash dash abort
if I just wanna bail on it.
Okay, so right now, rebase is paused,
but I just continued it.
Looks good.
Let's type git status.
All right, working to re-clean.
And now we successfully completed the rebase,
we resolved the conflicts,
and the end result is that the changes from master
and feature are all combined.
They're integrated.
So I have exactly what I wanted, right?
I have this file resolved the way it is,
and the entire feature branch,
all that history was rewritten
on top of the master branch,
rebased on top of the tip of the master branch.
All righty?
So we still can have conflicts.
We're still just combining commits
or combining branches, rather.
And that can lead to conflicts.
The way you resolve them is the same.
You go into the files.
It tells you exactly where the conflict is.
You pick what you want, incoming, original change,
or a hybrid of them like we did.
Then you add, you stage it,
and then you follow the instructions.
In our case, we don't wanna merge commit,
so we don't do git commit.
When we rebase, we did git rebase, dash, dash continue.
All right.

--- Introducing Interactive Rebase ---

Instructor: So now we're gonna talk
about a second way of using the Git Rebase command.
We can use it to rewrite history.
We can edit commits
we can change commit message, commit messages.
We can change the contents of a commit.
We can drop or delete an entire commit.
We can even reorder things using Git Rebase.
So if you remember I had this slide
with not a peace sign, but two fingers, because
there are two main ways to use the Git Rebase command.
One is as an alternative to merging
as we've already discussed.
You're probably exhausted from that
but that's one way of using it.
But another way of using it is
as a cleanup tool and it allows us to do some
of these things I've just mentioned rewrite history.
Now of course, anytime we rewrite history
we don't wanna be doing that
on work that people already have, right?
We don't want to rewrite commits
and make new commit hashes and screw everything
up if collaborators already have that work.
But this is a common workflow.
If you've been working on a branch, you have lots
of commits that maybe you've been working on this feature
for a while and you have some kind of half baked commits
or some buggy things or half complete commits.
If you want to go through
and streamline that and combine commits down, rename them
that can be a nice thing to do
before you share that code with anyone.
So it's a step a lot of people take before sort
of the grand unveiling of their branch, of their feature.
So the way that we do this is a little bit different.
We use the Git Rebase command, but typically
we don't actually specify a branch to rebase onto.
Instead we're just going to rebase a series
of commits onto the head that they're currently based on.
So instead of rebasing onto the master branch, for example
or the main branch, we'll rebase, whatever branch we're
on my feature, we'll rebase that branch onto where
it currently is my feature.
So it's just a way of recreating commits, every commit
that we specify and we do have to provide a range.
How far do we want to go back?
In this case, four commits.
I wanna go back four commits, recreate each one,
and then we pass in this dash I flag
this dash I option it stands
for interactive, and I'll show you what that does
in the next video.
It's a very different way of rebasing than what we've
seen so far.
But remember that the Git Rebase command in the ways that
or the previous way that we saw how to use it
as an alternative to merge, what it did was it went
through all the commits on some branch and it
recreated each one right at the tip of a branch.
So it doesn't matter where in this example
but it recreates each commit from this feature branch
minus those merge commits because they're not necessary.
So each commit got a new hash, but it had the same contents
it had the same message, same commit message
but they're distinct commits.
Using the interactive mode with this dash I
it gives us the ability to instead say, as you're
making this new commit, change the name or drop it.
Don't make a new version of this one.
So this is the basic syntax.
In the next video
I'm gonna demo it using a repository I've set
up that you can clone as well if you wanna follow along.
It's kind of fun
and I'll walk through that in the next video.

--- Rewording Commits With Interactive Rebase ---

Instructor: All right, so I wanna demonstrate
how we could use this -i option, the interactive rebase,
in order to clean up a messy branch, a messy set of commits.
So I have a messy set of commits that you can try this on.
The link will be included with this video
as a resource, interactive-rebase-demo.
It's not very creative.
But we have a bunch of commits in here.
Well, not a huge amount, but what, 8 or 10 commits?
And there are some missteps here.
For example, I started with initial commit. That's fine.
But most of my commits are using the imperative.
What is it, imperative voice?
Imperative, it's not tense, is it?
Present tense, imperative voice?
Whatever the grammatical term is, right, fix x, add x.
But then past tense, "I added project files."
Okay, so I wanna rename that or rework that commit message
before I share that with somebody.
And this is a silly example, but often, you know,
you might be doing some work locally on some project
where you're just working on your own.
You're not paying attention to commit guidelines
and messaging guidelines for the commit messages.
But then as you get ready to share this branch
with people and with, you know, let's say, somebody
who maintains a big open-source project or your boss,
you might want to go through
and rename commits to conform to some pattern
that the project is asking you to do.
Anyway, I also have a situation here.
I added some Bootstrap files in, and then I committed,
and then I realized, oh, whoops,
forgot to add Bootstrap JS script.
I forgot to add the JavaScript portion.
So I wanna go through, and I wanna combine that, actually,
into one commit, because they're doing the same thing.
It's part of adding Bootstrap into my file.
If you don't know Bootstrap, it's okay.
Basically, I started a task, and I didn't quite finish it.
So I have a second commit that also has to do
with this same topic.
Then I have this, I added a top nav bar to this website,
and then I made a commit, but then I found some typos.
So I made a commit.
And then, oh no, I found more typos.
So I made another commit.
I don't wanna share that with people.
I want those typos to be fixed,
but I wanna collapse those down
and just merge 'em in with this commit.
And then, also, I've got this last commit,
"my cat made this commit."
I wanna just completely drop that. I don't want that.
All right, so I just wanna get rid of it.
So these are all things that we can do
using interactive rebase.
So I'm gonna start by cloning this project.
So let's copy this URL, and then I'll clone it down.
So make sure I'm not in a repo, git clone, this URL.
Okay, so if we take a look, cd into there,
first thing I'll do is run git log oneline.
You can see that history, right, initial commit,
this one in the wrong tense, "I added project files,"
the Bootstrap stuff.
The only thing that has changed, actually,
is that I created a README on GitHub, I forgot about that,
and I did not include that commit in this commit log.
So there's another commit that was just added at the top,
create the README.
Anyway, so what I'm gonna do, I'm gonna make a branch first.
So this is just on the main branch,
but imagine we're working on some feature.
So I'm gonna make a branch, git switch -c,
my feature, my-feat.
All right, so I'm on this branch,
and I am ready to share this code with people,
but then I realize this is actually pretty terrible.
I wanna go through and clean up some of these commits,
condense them, maybe drop some, rename them
before anyone sees them.
So as we talked about,
we can use this git rebase command with the -i option,
and then specify how far back we wanna go.
And, again, I'm not specifying a branch to rebase onto.
I just wanna rebase in place
on top of the branch we're currently in.
In other words, redo some number of commits on this branch.
So I need to figure out how many.
I'll just go, ah, I mean,
I'm not gonna mess with initial commit,
so I could just do 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 8, 9.
I could go back nine commits and rebase that, all right?
So before I do anything, I'm gonna take a screenshot of this
just so that I can show you afterwards.
All right, so now I'm going to run the command.
So it's git rebase -i, for interactive.
And then I have to specify how many commits back
I want to recreate.
So if I only wanted to edit something,
you know, five commits ago,
there's no reason to go back 50 commits.
Generally, right, we wanna minimize the amount
of rewriting history we do.
So in our case, though, looking at this log,
I've screenshotted it here,
I wanna go back and at least to this one,
as we talked about, so that's nine,
so that's exactly what I'm gonna do,
git rebase -i, and then HEAD~9,
nine commits ago.
Also remember that I am not specifying a branch.
We are not rebasing onto a branch. We're rebasing in place.
So that's why I didn't say, like, git rebase master
or anything like that.
Okay, so when I hit Enter here, something weird will happen.
It will open up our text editor,
and it's not the most interactive thing ever,
but it opens up our text editor,
and it will give us a list of our commits
with these commands next to them.
It will say pick by default.
But then I have a bunch of options I can instead use.
So I'm gonna sort of take my time
showing those options to you in the next video or two.
But in this video, we're gonna focus on one
which is called reword.
But first I've gotta run this.
So I hit Enter, and it opens my text editor.
make this a bit larger.
It shows me all the commits
not ever in my repository right,
only the ones that I selected,
so nine, going back nine commits.
So we don't see initial commit.
That was 10 commits ago.
It stops with "I added project files."
Also notice the order is reversed, right.
Normally, with git log,
we see the oldest commit at the bottom
and the newest commit up top.
Here, it's reversed, oldest, newest.
But this is because basically this is a list of commands
that we're telling Git to do for each commit,
starting with this one, do this.
We'll talk about pick in a moment.
But if I change what these are,
if I say drop something, rename, edit,
it's gonna go through an order
and take this commit and follow this instruction.
And then this next one,
take this commit, follow that instruction.
So if I change those instructions, it goes through an order,
and it does whatever I say to these commits.
So it starts at the beginning, right,
not the beginning of our project,
not the beginning of the branch,
but the beginning of this subsection of commits,
nine commits, it starts at this one,
and then reconstructs going towards the most recent commit.
So there's a list of these commands that we have available
down at the bottom here,
quite a few, pick, reword, edit, squash, fixup,
exec, break, drop, label, reset, merge.
I've highlighted some of the more important ones here.
The first is the default one that it's already using, pick.
It's just a way of saying, yes, use this commit.
Keep it, don't change it, just use this commit, pick it.
But in this video, I'll also show you reword,
which is how I can reword the commit message.
So I'll edit the commit message.
We'll still keep that commit, right, in history.
It's not gonna go away or anything, the contents of it.
But I want a new message.
So in our example, I have this one in past tense,
"I added project files."
I want to reword that.
So I don't just edit it here in place.
What I'm gonna do is reword. That's the command I want.
I could also just do r, but I'm gonna do reword,
just to make it clearer for you.
I'm gonna save this, and this whole time, right,
my editor has just been waiting,
tapping its toe, just waiting for me to finish.
So I'm gonna close out of here now and close this window.
That was the only command I wanted to do, the only change.
And now it opens up something new.
It says, "Waiting for your editor to close," again.
But this time it opened up that commit message,
and it's gonna allow me to change this.
Instead of saying, "I added project files,"
I'll just say, "add project files," okay?
And then I'll save, and then I'm gonna close out of here.
Also, you can see interactive rebase in progress.
It knows, right, that we're in the middle of this.
It's actually the very first commit that it's rebasing
is the one I reworded.
Everything else is just being picked,
meaning keep it, don't reword it,
don't do anything, just keep it.
So I close out, and I'll full-screen this.
Here we are, waiting for your editor to close,
okay, it did.
And then it says, "Successfully rebased and updated."
Okay, so I type git status. Nothing has changed.
However, if I type git log, and I do oneline,
the first thing that we'll notice, hopefully,
is this new commit message, "add project files,"
instead of "added," or "I added," I think is what it said.
So we changed that message. We reworded that message.
So I'm gonna screenshot this and compare.
Okay, so this is what we had before,
"I added project files."
That was our second commit.
Now our second commit is "add project files."
But more importantly, or just as important,
by changing that commit, by renaming it or rewording it,
that changes the commit hash.
I'll compare them as best I can here.
Let's see, maybe zoom these in a bit.
Well, it's not a perfect comparison.
The screenshots are different sizes.
But you can see that first commit, initial commit,
is unchanged, but then every other commit
afterwards actually was rewritten.
It has a new hash.
Because this one changed, we changed that message,
the whole commit changes,
and every subsequent commit has to change
because every commit takes into account
its parent commit, it's rehashed.
Long story short, all new commits here,
but that's all that's changed.
We renamed or reworded one commit message
that made every other commit afterwards change.
The commit hash is regenerated, it's a new commit,
but the messages are the same, the contents are the same.
We didn't rebase onto another branch, right,
so our branch still looks the same
and same number of commits.
It's just that we used this one command so far,
the reword command, to change the commit message.
So in the next video, I'm gonna show you
how we can actually combine commits
so that I can get rid of some of these redundant things,
like combine the two bootstrap commits here
or the two bug fix commits up here with the nav bar.
So that's what I'll show you in the next video.
We still use interactive rebase. It's just a new command.

--- Fixing Up & Squashing Commits With Interactive Rebase ---

Instructor: All right, so we saw how to reword a commit,
and you can do that with multiple commits,
instead of just pick for each one,
you can replace it with reword
if you wanted to reword all of them.
But what I wanna do next is focus on combining,
let's do these two,
where I have add bootstrap,
and then whoops forgot to add bootstrap JavaScript script.
So in this example, or in this commit,
I added a CSS file for Bootstrap,
and then in this next commit,
I realized I had forgotten to add the JavaScript script.
So two things that really both should be part
of add bootstrap.
So I want the contents of both commits.
I don't wanna just delete this,
but I wanna get rid of that message,
I don't want to have a moment in history
where you see this change.
I want it to be incorporated in this commit.
So we have an option to do that.
We can use fixup, a different command,
which basically says use the contents of this commit,
but meld it or mush it into the previous commits,
and get rid of its commit message.
So that's what I want.
I wanna just get rid of this commit message,
take the contents of the commit,
and mush it together with this one.
So I'll show you that now,
I need to figure out how far back I wanna rebase.
I'll just do nine again,
just we don't need to, but sure, nine.
So it opens this up,
and I need to find the one that I want to fix up.
So it says, it's like squash, which will use the commit,
but meld it into the previous commit.
But this time, if we use fixup,
it also discards the commit's log message.
So squash does not do that,
I tend not to use squash, I tend to use fixup,
if I wanna combine commits,
I probably wanna only keep one commit message,
but keep the contents of both.
Okay, so we'll start here,
pick that, fine, keep it.
Pick that, that means keep it, don't change.
Pick, add bootstrap, I don't wanna change that either.
But this one here, I'm gonna change to fixup, or just F,
but again, I'm gonna type the whole thing out,
so fixup, and then save.
And this will take the commit from before,
and add this commit onto that one.
So take the contents of this commit,
which I think it was just a single JavaScript line,
and add that on to this commit,
and then just get rid of this commit message.
So I'll show you when I close this,
we're gonna get rid of this file, or X out after I save,
go back to our terminal, successfully rebased.
Okay, so git status, we're still in the same branch,
nothing has really changed, at least not obviously.
But if I do a git log oneline, take a look.
We just have add bootstrap,
so that makes it seem like we deleted that commit
that came after it, I don't see it here,
but I'm telling you the contents are still included.
I can prove that to you, I guess,
if I go to GitHub,
and I take a look at what we did in that commit,
if I look at this, forgot to add bootstrap js commit,
it was just this line,
so line 14, 15, 16 of the HTML file,
although that will change, but it's this script.
This is gonna be really annoying,
but you can see script cdn.jsdelivr, anonymous,
whatever you wanna look at there.
If I open up my project locally, I still see that script,
it's gonna be down here, right there.
cdn.jsdelivr, anonymous,
it's the same contents of that commit,
but that commit is now mushed in,
it's gone from our local machine, it's still on GitHub,
but I don't have that commit with that message,
whoops forgot to add bootstrap js script.
I combined that, I fixed it up,
so it was right here, this one,
whoops forgot to add bootstrap js script,
smushed it in with add bootstrap,
and we end up with just one streamlined commit
for those two commits.
So all the changes are still there,
we just have one simplified commit that says add bootstrap.
I could also rename this if I wanted to reword it.
I could say add bootstrap, CSS, and js,
and it's totally up to me.
Now as a consequence, by doing that,
once again all of these commits that come after it
are going to be new.
So that pick command just means keep the contents,
keep everything you can from this commit,
but it may end up that we need to remake that commit
if something changes before it.
So we changed this commit here,
so this has a new hash, add top navbar, de1,
in the previous video, or at the beginning of this one,
add top navbar was 71b.
So all the subsequent commits have changed.
All right, so I'll do one more example.
We have all of these right here.
Fix another navbar typo,
fix navbar typos,
add top navbar.
If I want to combine, I mean I could combine these two,
they both are just fixing typos in the navbar.
I could do that, or I could combine all three of these,
and just have one add top navbar if I wanted to.
So why don't I try that?
So we'll do the same thing.
Now if I do a git rebase nine this time,
head tilde nine, that results in an error
because the number of commits
that I have has changed, right?
I have one fewer, so I'm gonna do eight.
All righty?
So what am I going to do here?
We'll fix up, minimize that,
these here, fix navbar typos, fix another navbar typo.
I'm gonna do a fixup, and another fixup.
So both of them will be smushed into the previous commit,
and those messages will be lost, just gone,
but the contents of both will be included.
So I fixed, I'll show you the typos, they're not exciting,
but I fixed two typos and then one typo here.
I'm just gonna include that all
when I created the navbar, all right?
So right now we have those two commits about fixing typos.
I'm gonna close out.
Okay, it looks good here.
And if I do a git log oneline
now it just says add top navbar.
Commit hash has changed,
but we no longer have those other two typo commits,
they're gone,
but I promise you the changes are still there.
I'll quickly prove that, and then end the video.
So if I go back to one of them,
how about fix another navbar typo?
I had Navbarr with two Rs,
and I fixed it to have one R, all right?
So that change is still here.
It's just been moved into a different commit,
it's been smushed.
If I find that line, which is right here,
that typo has been fixed, Navbar with one R,
and the other commit navbar here, navbar typos,
I've changed Linkk that had two Ks to have one K.
So if I show you that, it is right here, it has one K.
So those changes were not deleted, they're still there.
All the code from whatever commit that I fixed up,
that's still included,
it's just smushed into the previous commit,
and the commit message is gone.
So that's super useful,
I have cleaned up my history significantly already, right?
This is a lot easier to look at
and understand what I was doing.
One thing, though, that we probably wanna do is
get rid of this commit,
and I'll show you how to do that next.

--- Dropping Commits With Interactive Rebase ---

Instructor: The final thing I'll show you here
with interactive Rebase is how we can completely
remove a commit, not just the message
but the entire commit and its changes.
So I have this one horrible commit I made.
Let's say it was an accident.
It's silly, but in all reality
there might be work you've done
on a branch that you just don't want anymore, especially
as you're about to share this branch with other people.
So I faked that by de making a commit
claiming it was from my cat, my JavaScript app.js
file has a bunch of random nonsense, and then
a commit message that says, my cat made this commit.
So I wanna get rid of that.
I'll just show you right now.
If I take a look at the app.js file
using the aptly named cat command
this is what's in there, right?
I can see this here.
If I open it, I wanna get rid of that.
I mean, I could delete it of course, but then
I have to make a commit that says something like, you know
deleting work for my cat.
I just wanna drop that commit entirely.
So I need to figure out how far back to go.
It's just two commits to go.
So that's, I could just do that.
Go back two.
So interactive rebase two.
So I'm gonna do that.
Git rebase dash I again, just rebasing in place.
So head tilde two, it opens it up.
Here's that commit, and instead of pick or reword or fix up
I'm going to drop, which will remove the commit entirely.
All righty.
So we're gonna go ahead and try that.
I don't know why I just went to my terminal.
I'm gonna do drop that commit
and then X out of here, I saved.
And now first of all, if I type git log, that commit is not
showing up, right?
I don't see the message, but also the changes are gone.
If I go to my editor, that file is still here
because I created it in a different commit
but the contents are gone.
So now I have a completely rewritten history on this branch
my feature branch, and we could compare it.
So if we just take a look here, right?
We only have one, two, three, four, five, six total commits.
And they're all, I guess in present tense
although you know it, maybe I want to uppercase all of them.
So here we have an uppercase C, or the other option
would be to make this lowercase.
So we could do that, right?
We know how to do that actually, if it's the most
recent commit, the easiest way is to use git
commit dash amend, which I showed you quite a long time ago.
You may not remember, but if I do this, it opens
up the most recent commit and it allows me
to edit the commit message.
But also I could add stuff in if I did a git add first
and then commit amend.
So I'm gonna close outta this though.
And now if I do my git log, everything's all lowercase.
I don't know, may just keep it consistent, right?
It's just another way of editing
commits of rewriting history.
Okay, so we'll switch back to master from here.
Git switch master and do a, oh no, it's main, isn't it?
And then I'll do a git log one line.
Way more commits.
As you can see, very inconsistent tense.
We collapse some of these down.
We mushed them together.
This one here with that one.
And then these three, we combined
we dropped this one, we rewrote history.

--- The Idea Behind Git Tags ---

-: So next up we Git to talk about Git tags
which are very useful, but also fortunately
for us are pretty simple to pick up.
They're not a very complicated concept.
The main idea behind Git tags is
that we can tag particular commits.
We can label commits by creating a Git tag
a reference to a moment in time.
So these tags can be anything.
We can name them whatever we want.
But typically tags are used these days to
mark version releases for projects.
So again, think of tags as
like a label pointing to a particular moment in time
kind of like branch references, except
that a branch reference like these here, right?
These change, if we add a new commit
to the master branch, this reference moves
it points to the tip of the master branch, the next commit.
But a tag will actually stay referring
to the same commit that we set it up on.
So on the Git docs, they explain this
Git has the ability to tag specific points
in repositories history as being important.
Think of it as like a sticky note on a commit.
Typically people use this functionality to
mark release points, but again, you don't have to
but that's the context I'm gonna demonstrate it in.
It's what you'll see the most.
Really the only thing I ever see tags used for.
So tags allow us to do things like this.
Everybody, whoever sees this repository
I'm tagging this one, commit as our version 3.1 0.0 release
for whatever this software is that we're making.
So that is always going to be there no matter
how much more work we do
thousands of more commits in the master branch.
Lots of merges.
This will always be 3.1 0.0.
It's tagged that way.
Yes, we could move the tag, but we have to do it manually
unlike with a branch reference, which automatically updates.
So I can tag different points
as different releases in our history.
And all I'm doing is marking them as important moments.
And a lot of the time this happens, right?
You, you would have a new version,
a new release when some code is merged
into the master branch.
If we're working on a big project
a big open source project, lots
and lots of contributors, at some point, some code is merged
in and whether it's a bug fix or a whole new refactoring
or some radical change, that typically marks a new release.
So that's why I'm marking
or I'm tagging these merge commits
but that's not always how it works.
All that I want you to understand for now is
that a tag is just a pointer to a commit a moment in time.
It doesn't have to be in the master branch.
You can tag any commits.
And when you tag that, commits, that tag stays there.
It refers to that moment in time.
And these names can be anything.
Most of the time we're talking about versioning
but you could name them Hotdog Pickle and Bluebird Tuber
if you wanted to.
We have complete control over what we tag things as.
So there are two different types of tags
that we're going to discuss. There are lightweight tags.
Lightweight tags are simpler, they're lightweight
they're just like a name and a label.
That's it.
Think of what you see here.
A name referring to a moment in time.
Annotated tags include additional information
including a tag message, kind of like a commit message.
The author's name and email, the date.
And for that reason
because they include all this additional metadata
they are generally preferred in a lot of big projects.
They'll ask you to use annotated tags, not lightweight tags.
So I'll show you how to do both of them.
They're very simple.
It's really just one command we need to cover
which is Git tag and then we'll go on from there.
But before we go any further
I actually wanna talk a little bit about versioning
because tagging and versioning are kind of tied together.
That's the main use case for Git tags.
I wanna talk about semantic versioning
and that's what we're gonna cover in the next video.

--- A Side Note On Semantic Versioning ---

Instructor: So as we talked about in the previous video
the most common, really the only use case these days,
well, I shouldn't say only,
by far, the most common use case though for tagging
is in versioning, in marking release points
for some piece of software.
The Git docs mention this.
Typically people use this functionality
to mark release points.
It is really the thing tags are used for.
So in this video,
we're not gonna talk about tags specifically,
we're not gonna see any commands,
but I wanna talk about semantic versioning.
Semantic versioning is a protocol, a specification,
a set of rules and requirements,
that dictate how version numbers are assigned
and incremented,
basically the meaning of these three numbers
with two dots between them.
You've probably seen this system before,
it's really widespread these days,
and it is tied tightly to the usage of Git tags.
So the whole point here of semantic versioning,
it's an actual specification that we can take a look at.
It's a nice and short document,
not bad compared to some of the other
software specs out there.
And the idea is just to lay out this set of rules
for making versioning transparent and consistent
and meaningful so that these release numbers
actually have meaning encoded in those three digits.
So the system is three numbers with two dots between them,
and each spot indicates something different.
So on the far left, we have major releases,
then we have minor releases in the middle,
and then patches on the right.
So typically if you start out development
of some application or some library that you're creating,
the initial public facing release will be 1.0.0,
and I believe that's actually codified in here somewhere.
Let's see, version 1.0.0 defines public API, yes,
so that's one of the rules here, there's a couple of rules.
Then, once you have that initial release out,
small changes, patch releases,
are going to be indicated here on the far right.
So patches do not contain new features
or significant changes, definitely no breaking changes,
often just bug fixes and minor changes
that don't impact how people use the code
or the piece of software.
So if people are already using 1.0.0,
and they're comfortable with it,
if you release 1.0.1, that's a patch,
and you shouldn't change anything
that those people are using, you shouldn't surprise people
or break anything that they're doing.
So patches are small and they happen pretty frequently.
So that's what this number indicates here,
and you increment that by one for every patch,
so there could be another patch and it would be 1.0.2.
Then we have minor releases.
So minor releases signify new features,
new functionality that's been added,
but everything is still backwards compatible,
no breaking changes.
So typically, new functionality,
new features will be optional in a minor release.
It's just like, hey, here's some new stuff,
but you don't have to completely reconfigure
everything you've done as a user.
You don't have to rewrite code, but you could add this in.
So that's what minor releases are for.
And whenever there's a minor release,
you're supposed to reset the patch number back to zero.
So then you could have 1.1.1, 1.1.2, 1.1.3.
But then as soon as there's a new minor release, 1.2.0.
And then we get to major releases,
major releases are for significant changes
that are not backwards compatible,
features may be entirely removed,
changed substantially.
It will often include breaking changes.
So there's a big difference
between a minor release and a major release.
And the protocol is that for a major release,
you increment that number
and then you set the other two back to zero.
So that's the basic concept.
It's pretty simple, right?
The system, here's just three numbers,
but it makes it clear to any user or consumer
of some piece of software,
how significant a change is in a new version,
which is always very important,
especially if you're relying on a piece of software,
a library, as a dependency for your own software
that you're building.
So we can take a look at some examples,
for example, Bootstrap.
Bootstrap, if you're not familiar,
I've mentioned it a couple times in this course,
just as demos, very popular CSS framework,
component library, whatever you wanna call it.
And on GitHub, we can actually go and click on tags,
which again, we haven't seen how to make tags yet,
but then we can click on releases right here.
And we can see a whole bunch of releases,
so currently we're on 5.0.0.
By the way, v technically is not part
of the semantic versioning spec,
but most of the time you'll see a v
before those three numbers.
And also afterwards, you can append things like beta,
I believe they talk about it somewhere on here.
Yeah, a pre-release version may be noted
by appending a hyphen, and then some other stuff afterwards.
Anyway, if we keep scrolling down
we can see these different releases, here are two examples.
We have 4.5.1,
and then the next release is a patch, 4.5.2.
So this number increments,
and there's really not a lot happening here.
It looks like it's removing one line of styles
and then restoring some mixin.
So two minor things, no breaking changes.
And we can see, you know, the rules were followed, I guess,
in this versioning, in this release number,
increment that far right digit.
And then here's another example for React.
This is their change log on the React homepage.
And if we take a look at something like 16.12,
going to 16.13, this is a minor release,
but there are some changes,
some new features, it looks like.
Generally more functionality compared to a patch,
we can find a patch somewhere, like right here,
this is a patch release, as is this.
Tiny little changes, refactoring, bug fixes.
Then here we've got a minor.
This is, let's see what came before,
looks like this is a patch right there.
16.8.6, and then a minor release, 16.9.0,
we've reset that patch number to zero.
And then somewhere we've got 17.0.0,
that is a major release,
you can see they kind of make a big deal out of it.
They write a blog post on how to even update to it,
what the main changes are,
and there's a lot more stuff here.
So that's the main concept behind semantic versioning.
The version numbers, those three digits are in this case,
you know, it's what, four digits.
But those three slots separated by periods tell you a lot.
They indicate the severity or the scope of a given release
and its changes.
So let's get back to tagging in the next video.

--- Viewing & Searching Tags ---

Instructor: Okay, so back to tagging.
The first thing that we're gonna take a look at is
how we view tags,
how do we look at existing tags?
And we're actually gonna use a repository
that we clone that has hundreds of tags
for us to play around with and inspect.
We're going to use the react repository
if you wanna follow along.
So I'll include the link along with this video,
and a resource, but it's just github.com/facebook/react.
We can see currently there's oh what, 137 tags?
Quite a few.
This is where you view them on GitHub,
but I'm just gonna clone this,
clone this down to my machine,
so make sure I'm not in a Git repository.
And then Git clone.
There we are.
It's, it's gonna take a little while.
It's a pretty large project.
You can see it's going pretty slowly,
but it will be, well
I won't say it's worth it, but it
it's a good tool for us to play around with tags.
And while that's going, I just wanna remind you,
the concept of a tag is to be able to mark
or to highlight some point in history
and have that be a static reference
that does not update unless we explicitly want to move it.
This example, V 3.1.0,
some release refers to that right there, right?
This one commit.
This is a minor release, most likely
and it's referring to that one commit.
And at any point I can go back and look at that, right?
Everyone can see this is the moment in time
where version 3.1.0 was released, right?
This is that release.
Alright, so hopefully that repository is done cloning.
The command that we're gonna start with,
really the command that forms the base of everything we do
with tags, is git tag,
but git tag on its own with no options,
no additional values or arguments
will list all the tags in the current repository.
So we clone this react repo.
Okay, it did finish, if I CD into it,
all right, we're in a git repository,
we're on the master branch.
If I type git tag,
I'm going to see a lot of different tags.
These each mark a different release.
So there's a lot of them I have to scroll.
And then to get out of here,
hopefully we're used to this by now,
type Q,
same as you know, when we're in git log for example,
hit Q and we get out.
So these are all different tag names.
You'll see that a lot of them start with V.
That's pretty standard and conventional,
although actually some of them don't.
Some of them are missing the V,
I'm not sure why that is.
Just, I don't know.
Some people didn't get the memo.
But all these tags down here are all different versions
right, they follow semantic versioning.
So we've got, you know, the most recent 17.0.0,
that's the most recent major release.
And then here's a patch soon after, 17.0.1.
And I'm sure you'll see some new tags.
Just, you know, even if you're doing this a couple weeks
after I publish the course, there will be new releases.
So the exact numbers don't really matter,
but you should have all these anyway,
plus possibly more.
So this is just listing a bunch of pointers.
So each pointer, each tag has a name, right?
And they're just version numbers,
but those could be other names.
They could be chicken or honey boo boo or something.
Typically version numbers.
And they each refer to a particular point in time
a specific commit,
but we don't see that right now.
We'll learn how to inspect the changes
or take a look at those particular moments in time.
But for now, we're just listing the tags.
And on the topic of listing tags,
another thing we can do is filter them or search.
When we've got a bunch of tags
like we do on this react project,
we can use the dash L.
So it is an L, it kind of looks like a one there
but it's dash L for list,
which actually, it's confusing,
it doesn't have anything to do with this really,
dash L is telling it to list all the tags
which we don't have to do here, right?
We just get them all.
But if I add the dash L, it's implicit
when I do git tag, we're actually doing dash L,
just we're saying list all the tags.
But when we try and filter with some
some sort of wild card like we have here
this is a pattern that we're trying to match.
So that star inside the quotes
an asterisk here means any character
this is going to find all tags that contain beta in them
and we have to use dash L in order to list them out.
It's kind of weird, but that's just how it works.
So as an example, if I wanted to look at all the,
hmm, how about all the tags that start with 17?
I think there's only two
I can do git tag dash L and then 17.
And if I just do that, I'm looking for an exact tag
named 17.
It doesn't exist,
but if I do 17 star,
that means one or more characters,
or I actually, I think it's zero or more characters.
But basically something after 17,
still nothing.
Oh, well that's my fault.
They actually start with a V 17, don't they?
Yeah, well that was underwhelming.
So there was no tag that started exactly with 17
and then stuff afterwards,
they only had V 17 and then content afterwards.
So let's take a look again at all the tags,
if I wanted to find all of them that contained beta,
anywhere I could do this
git tag dash L, and then some characters
optionally beta, and then some characters optionally
afterwards.
And here we are.
This one, right?
16.0.0 beta.1,
this one ends in beta,
this one has a dot after it,
this one has a number.
So we're getting all of those.
And yeah, that's kind of all I wanted to show you
in this video.
So we can search through tags or filter for particular tags.
Remember you do need the dash L here,
otherwise it thinks that we're actually trying
to make a new tag name
because in the next video, or very soon,
I'll show you how to make a new tag
where we use git tag just kind of like git branch, right?
You can view branches with git branch
and make a new branch with git branch.
So anyway, dash L just says, list all the tags
and here's what I want you to filter them by.
Okay, so that's our first example of viewing those tags
or at least the name of those tags.
Next up I wanna talk about actually checking out those tags
and going back in time and maybe diffing tags as well.

--- Comparing Tags With Git Diff ---

Instructor: So just like with branches,
we can actually check out particular tags.
The main difference, though,
is that when we're checking out a tag,
a tag is referring to a a particular commit, not a branch.
There's a a big difference there,
where a branch reference is always going to be updated
to refer to the tip of that branch.
We check out that branch.
We're not in detached head.
But if we instead check out a particular tag,
we are going to go into detached head,
because we're basically just checking out a commit,
just like if we actually check out a particular commit
like git checkout 532FB, whatever that commit hash is,
that is gonna put us into detached head.
Same thing when we check out a tag,
because a tag is just pointing to a commit.
So it's not a problem.
If we want to go back
and actually work on an older version...
Usually, you don't just make changes to an old release.
The point is that a release is set in stone.
When it's released, it doesn't change.
That's what new releases are for
if you need to make changes.
But let's say we wanted to go back and work on
or work off of some earlier release.
How about, sure, 15.3.1.
All right?
All that we have to do is git checkout that right there.
15.3.1.
So that's a tag name.
If I try and use checkout normally,
we check out a branch or we check out a commit hash.
That's not exactly what one looks like.
Or we can check out a tag.
And we see our favorite message,
that we're now in detached head state.
You can look around, make experimental changes, commit them,
and we can make a branch if we want to keep working.
So I could do that.
I could do a git switch -c, MY,
I don't know what I wanna call this, BRANCH_FROM_TAG.
I don't know why I'm using underscores here.
Normally, I wouldn't do that.
But anyway, I now made this branch
based upon that particular commit, which was 15.3.1.
That's what the tag referred to.
And we probably won't be able to tell much difference
here at all.
But that brings me to the next point,
which is that we can actually diff different tags.
So I think a more obvious diff to do
would be between two patches.
So what about this?
17.0.0, so that was a major release,
and then there was a patch.
So I want to see what changed between these two.
I can do that very easily.
So I can do git diff and then v17., if I can type it, .0.0,
and then I want v17.0.1, like that.
And it looks like it was a very minor change.
This is the only thing that changed,
one file and just a little bit of what,
a couple of lines added and one line removed.
So that was it.
But if we were to compare something much more drastic,
how about the last minor release on 16?
So 16.14.
So let's just find that, 16.14.
It probably starts with a V.
Is it on here?
Yes. Okay.
16.14.0. And compare that to 17.
So git diff 16.14.0 and we'll compare that to v17.0.0.
So this was the last minor on 16
and the first major or a new major release v17.
And I'm gonna be scrolling for a while.
There are lots of files, lots of changes,
lots of stuff deleted.
I don't even know how much.
It doesn't gimme an indication
of how much more I have to go, but lots of changes.
It doesn't help that I'm very zoomed in
to make the text large.
But anyway, those are two points in time.
They are marked with tags.
We can check them out and make a new branch
if we wanna work based upon one of those points in time,
or we can compare them.
These are just moments in time.
They're releases in this case,
but as we'll soon see, we can create tags with any name.
We'll stick with releases.
But they're just a pointer.
It's just like a sticky note on a commit
that says here is 17.0.0,
so everyone in the future knows
that this is where that release was.
This is what we released right here.
So that's how we can check out tags
and how we can diff them.
The next thing, of course, is making tags.

--- Creating Lightweight Tags ---

Instructor: Next step, we'll talk about creating tags.
Now remember, there are two different types of tags.
We'll talk about both of them.
They're both very easy to make.
There's lightweight tags, which are just a piece of text
referring to a commit.
And then there are annotated tags that have
additional metadata aside from just a name,
make a lightweight tag.
They also include author's name and email,
the date, and a detailed tagging message.
All right, so here's how we make a lightweight tag.
Git tag, and then some tagname, some tag we want to create.
And by default it will reference, it will point to
whatever the head is pointing at that moment in time
or whatever the head is referencing at that moment in time.
So basically the most recent commit
on whatever branch you're on, right?
If we run git tag, the tag refers to that particular commit.
So if we're using react as the example here,
if I git switch, I'll go back to master and what do we have?
The most recent one, I think is 17.0.1.
If I wanted to make my own new version, 17.0.2,
I'll just patch something.
What could we do?
I don't know, we'll add a note to some file or something.
This is gonna be silly.
Here's the contents of the entire repository.
I don't know, let's go into the "README"
and just change something very quickly.
JavaScript is an awesome,
or "React is an awesome JavaScript library"
"for building user interfaces."
That's all we're going to do.
And I'm gonna add and commit that.
So I'm on the master branch, "git add README".
git commit-m, I don't know, fix typo.
It's not really a typo, but "Fix typo in README".
Okay, so now if I want to tag this as a new release
which I normally would not do, certainly not for that,
but if I wanted to, I can use git tag.
And if I just do git tag with a tag name
like, we'll do 17.0.2, it's a patch.
The most recent one was 17.0.1.
So this is just logically the next patch.
Anyway, if that's what I want to do
I'll create a lightweight tag right here using the head,
whatever head is referencing.
Head references the master branch.
The master branch, the tip is pointing at the commit
I just made.
Here we go.
Well, it doesn't seem like much happened
but if I do a git tag, it should show up down there.
There it is.
And I could keep moving, right?
I could do some more work.
Let's make another quick change.
Let's say that we do another typo fix.
I don't know, how about, "I like my pet chickens!"
All right, so we'll pretend we've done some code.
It's just another patch.
So we'll do git status.
I'll make a new commit, I'll do full screen.
How about "update README".
Oh geez, I forgot to do dash A if I wanna add that change.
Okay, so I can create a new tag again
using the current head.
-: So I'll do "git log one line" just to remind you of that.
Head currently on master.
This commit, update README.
So you can actually see my tag show up right there, right?
That's the tag that I made earlier, 17.0.2.
So now I'm gonna do a git tag v17.0.3.
There we are.
Okay, so I now have two tags that I've created
in this video.
There they are.
They both refer to different commits.
You normally, you know, wouldn't work on the master branch
like I am anyway, but just to keep it simple and short,
that's what I'm doing.
And why don't we take a look
at the diff between 17.0.2, the previous tag we made,
and then the most recent one we made?
And there we are.
That's what changed between those releases.
So that's how we can make basic tags, lightweight tags,
which are actually kind of frowned upon,
or they're not as popular as the alternative.
We'll discuss in the next video the annotated tag
which includes a bit more information.

--- Creating Annotated Tags ---

Instructor: Okay, so to make an annotated tag,
we use the dash A option for annotated,
otherwise it's still git tag
and then some tag that we're creating.
And just like before
it will be based upon the current head commit.
Let's do some more significant changes.
Now let's go make a new file
and we'll just call this new feature.js.
And then I'll put some stuff
in here that says this is a new feature
not breaking change.
And then we'll put some gibberish here.
We'll pretend that this is, you know, some nice new feature
but you don't have to use it.
It's just gonna be part of a minor release.
Okay, so now I'm gonna add and commit.
So git add new feature, git commit, add, new feature.
Great and now I wanna create my tag.
So git tag and then I'll do an annotated tag.
So dash a.
And then after that, the name
of the tag that I wanna create, I think we're on 17 points.
If we're doing a a minor release, it'll be 1.0, right?
We were on oh 0.3 I believe 17.0 0.3.
This is now a minor release, not a patch.
So there we are and you'll see that it's gonna prompt me
in my editor, just like when I do a commit.
So it, you know, it wants me to include a message
additional details if I want to, I can put stuff
in here like this is more stuff about my tag
it's an annotated tag.
Sure, all right.
And then I close out of here and that finishes the process.
I now have that new tag and we see it down here.
That is my new minor release.
So that's how we make an annotated tag.
Just like with Git Commit
you can actually use the dash M option to do it
in line to pass a message directly.
You can forego the opening of the text editor
just like git Commit.
You still have to pass that in though.
So if you use dash M, pass in a message between quotes.
So how do we view more information about one of those tags
right we just made this annotated tag.
How do I see who made it?
How do I see that metadata, the tag message?
Well we use a command called git show and then the name
of the tag.
So 17.1.0 this is going to show us the tagger.
There I am Colt, the date.
Here's my tag information, right?
This is the message I wrote and then the commit
that it refers to.
So you can see that right there.
So we can also do this for real tags that others
have created.
Like let's look at 17.0.0 that major release.
So we can do git show 17.0.0.
So here's the commit that the tag refers to.
We can see yeah bump versions for 17.
Dan Abramov, very well relatively famous developer
on the React team.
Sort of the like React guy.
And then we get a diff and you know
this is exactly what happened in that one commit
that this tag is referring to 17.0.0.
So that's the basic concept
of making an annotated tag dash A.
It includes more information, it will prompt you
in your text editor for a message
or you can skip that and do dash M with the dash A
at which point you need to pass in inside of quotes
a message directly through the command line.
And that will be used as your tagging message
just like with Git Commit.
And then we saw that we can use Git Show to
see more information about a particular tag.

--- Tagging Previous Commits ---

Instructor: So far, we've used git tag
to generate a tag that refers to the current head commit.
But we can also go back and tag earlier commits
by using the commit hash.
So, if I do a git log --oneline on this react repo,
let's take some earlier commit,
really, any earlier commit.
Let's, I don't know, there's so many to choose from.
Let's take one of them.
How about right here, remove JSX plugin.
If you're following along, just pick any commit, really.
Actually, you know what? I regret this.
I think something closer to the top will be easier to see.
Okay, how about this one right here?
Request to update email.
So whatever,
on your git log, whatever you see,
just go back a couple of commits,
maybe five, 10 commits earlier before any tags we've created
and copy one of those hashes.
So right now, we don't see a tag here but I can add one
if I do git tag,
and then a tag name,
and then the commit hash.
And this can be lightweight or annotated.
I use -a for annotated.
To make it simple, I'll use lightweight.
So, git tag and then tag name,
let's just do something, I don't know, mytag,
just to demonstrate, right?
It doesn't have to be a version number.
And then, I'll put the commit hash
and we don't really see much.
If I do git tag,
we'll see my tag in there.
There it is.
But also, if I do git log --oneline or just git log,
there it is.
We tagged that previous, that earlier commit.
That's really all I wanted to show you here.

--- Replacing Tags With Force ---

Instructor: If, for some reason,
we need to move a tag,
so we need to have it refer to a different commit,
we can use the -f option to force that tag through.
Because, as I'll show you,
git does not like it if we try and reuse a tag.
So I've got,
let's just take this tag here, 17.0.3,
and for whatever reason,
it's a bad idea and you should not do this typically,
but let's say I wanted to,
actually, I made a mistake.
I instead want this tag to point to this commit right here.
So, I can copy that commit hash,
and then I want 17.0.3,
so I can do git tag,
and then v17.0.3,
and then this commit hash.
But then git says, "Not so fast, fatal,"
always so dark sounding,
that tag already exists.
So, tag names do need to be unique.
I can't reuse that, so that's a problem.
But if I want to move that,
which is what I'm trying to do,
I made a mistake for whatever reason,
I want that tag to actually apply,
I want it to refer to this commit right here instead,
I use the -f flag.
So, just like that.
It doesn't have to go at the end of course, anywhere,
but -f and I force it through.
It says, "All right, all right, updated that tag."
It was referring to this commit,
now it refers to that commit you wanted.
And if I do my git log, mm, there it is.
It refers to this commit instead of that one.
So, that's how you can move tags if needed.
Not something I do very often at all
but if you need to, use the -f flag.

--- Deleting Tags ---

Instructor: Next up a very quick one: Deleting tags.
We just use the -d flag,
just like with deleting a branch,
and then the tag name that we're referencing.
So let's see. Which one should we delete?
We've got this tag v17.1.0.
Let's do something more obvious.
Let's actually add another tag just where we are right now,
git tag deleteme.
All right, so now if we look at our git log,
we have two tags referring to this commit.
I wanna delete this one.
I can do git tag -d for delete,
and then deleteme,
and it deletes that tag for me.
And if we look at our log again,
we still have that other tag,
but our deleteme tag is completely gone.
So that's all there is to deleting tags.
Nice and easy.

--- IMPORTANT: Pushing Tags ---

Instructor: Now, one last important note about tags
has to do with pushing.
By default, when you push up changes to a remote repository,
tags are not going to be included.
So you can push tags, actually, two different ways.
You can push all of your tags that are new,
using --tags, or you can go to Git Docs,
and they talk about how you can push a single particular tag
like this, git push, and then a remote name,
and then the tag you want to push up.
So I'll demonstrate this, but the problem is,
right now, I just cloned the React repo.
I can't push anything, tags or anything at all,
because I don't have permission.
I'm not a collaborator.
So I'm gonna make my own repo.
I'll just call this one tags-demo.
Sure, I'll make it public.
It doesn't matter.
All I'm going to do is push up all of this here.
I'm gonna push up React, but I'm gonna push it to my repo.
So I'm gonna add a new remote.
So I already have remote called origin because I cloned.
So instead of renaming origin,
I'll just go with git remote add, how about Colt?
That is the name of my remote now.
So I have two.
This is Facebook's.
Because I cloned, it just came with that remote.
And then this is the one I just added.
So now if I try and push up to mine, git push colt master,
it's gonna take a while.
But eventually, when that finishes,
I'll refresh here, and...
It's gonna be like a minute or so.
I'll edit this out.
It's still going.
Oh, oh, something new.
And that should be it, right?
Okay. Whew.
I'll refresh on GitHub.
Great.
Hmm. I don't see any tags.
Hopefully, you see that right there. Zero tags.
So all the work, everything that I cloned from git,
or sorry, everything I cloned from React,
is pushed up but not tags.
So I can push one tag up at a time.
If we just pick one, like, oh, mytag,
that was one we created,
I can do git push origin, and then a tag name.
Well, I can't push the origin.
What a mess.
I can push to my remote rather that I created called colt.
And that should be quick.
Hopefully, we're just pushing up a single tag.
And there it is, mytag.
But if I wanna push up all tags,
that's where we can use the --tags flag.
So I still need to specify, in this case, where.
So I didn't use the -u option when I pushed,
so I haven't set an upstream for this branch,
but I'll do git push colt and then --tags.
So colt is my remote name,
obviously not a very conventional name.
But because I didn't fork and then clone this,
I had to add a remote.
I could have changed the origin remote
to point to my repo instead.
But anyway, it doesn't matter.
If I do --tags, it now pushes up to my repository,
that remote, and it's going to push all of those tags up.
Should be nowhere near as as much time, though.
This is maybe 10 seconds or so compared to a minute,
which is what we had earlier.
And there we go, 141 tags. They're pushed up.
So moral of the story.
Tags are not included by default when you push.
You can push them one at a time,
or you can push all tags in a repo using --tags.
And that about wraps it up for tags.
A pretty simple feature, but also very heavily used,
and especially in large projects, open-source projects
and tightly tied, at least in how they're commonly used,
tightly tied to semantic versioning.
So that's tags.

--- Working With The Local Config File ---

Instructor: So the first part
of this Git behind the scenes section,
we'll focus on the .git directory and its contents.
There's a lot in there that we're not going to talk about
but I'm gonna highlight some
of the most important pieces in the next few videos.
So if we take a look at any repository
I'm gonna be using the React repository that we cloned
in the Git tags section, but you can do this on any repo.
But just to remind you
there's a whole bunch of stuff in this one.
If I do a git log, well that's not very helpful.
Let's do a one line, lots and lots of commits, I mean a lot.
Okay, and then we've got of course our .git folder.
So I'm gonna take a look at that folder
I'll just cd into it.
Remember it's a hidden folder, let me clear.
And then here are the contents.
So compared to this slide, there's a lot more
but I'm just gonna highlight some
of the most important pieces.
And in this video, I'm gonna start
by talking about this one file called config.
The config file is for additional configuration.
We've talked about this a little bit with Git.
There are multiple locations that we can configure settings,
we can do it globally,
we can actually do it system-wide, globally
and then locally on a per repo basis.
So this config file in the .git folder right there
in every repo, it's gonna exist.
If you put settings in there, they will be configured
for this one repo, but not for all repos.
It's not going to change things globally.
Now there is also a global config file
which we won't talk about now.
I just wanna show you the local one.
This is where we can go and change things.
We can add customization for one repo that,
you know, won't affect another repo.
The problem is that there is so much that you can do
so many different settings, it's honestly overwhelming.
Here is what the file looks like.
So the format is a bit different
than anything we've seen so far.
This is what's in mine by default.
So every time I add a remote,
I end up, well I cloned this repo.
So we ended up with this remote first
and then I added my own remote, I called it Colt.
So we end up with this here, but then we have some settings
that we can change.
Some of these basic ones like ignore case,
these are all they're in here automatically,
but I can add on as much as I want.
And this is also where we can add Git aliases
that we'll talk about later.
So I said there's a lot that you can do.
This is the documentation, the page for Git config.
We can configure Git, we can change settings
from the command line, which we've seen before
when we did this sort of thing.
Git config user.name for example, when we set this
if I set it to something else, I'm actually
setting a a value in a file in the global Git config file.
But I can also set things locally
so I could do Git config
and then local user.name.
It's not gonna give me anything
but I can set this value to be something else like
I don't know, chicken little.
Okay, and now if I ask for my local username
it says "you are chicken little"
and if we look at this file somewhere, there it is.
User name is chicken little.
So if I set email,
local user.email, I dunno, how about chicken@gmail.com?
We can see it is just a simple way
of updating the file for me, right?
I'm setting a local setting versus
if I leave off the dash dash local
I'm updating a setting in the global config file.
So in another repo, I'm still Colt
that's the global user.name.
And this repo I am now chicken little.
Also, we can do a whole bunch more
which is what I was starting to get at,
so many different settings.
It's very, very overwhelming as I scroll through here,
each one of these is a setting
and most of them have multiple possible values.
I mean, it's kind of crazy.
So if you do wanna get into fancy configuration files
I usually poke around
and take a look at what other developers do.
They often share their config files.
I'll just show one example
of things that we could configure.
It's I guess kind of fun.
We'll play around with color.
So depending on the terminal you're using,
the shell specifically,
you may have some colors automatically configured.
For example, if I do a Git,
I have to get out of the .git folder.
If I do a git diff, let's just do
compared to a couple commits ago, I've got, you know,
this default red and green on this diff and some cyan here.
You may or may not see the same colors
but I'm gonna show you how we can actually change that.
So there's all these settings under color.
If I try and search for color, this is what I don't like.
I'm searching for color and I'm getting 151 results.
It's really hard to navigate this.
But basically I happen to know how to do this
because I've pulled up an earlier example
and I think there's an example somewhere on here as well.
But I'm just gonna show you what it's like.
I wouldn't come to the Git docs to figure this out.
I would probably Google just Git config colors.
So I'm gonna show it to you over here.
I can manually edit this file.
Instead of going
and using the commands from the terminal, I can do this.
So I'm gonna start with color.
And again, the syntax's kind of weird.
I'm gonna say UI equals true.
All right, and then after that I can set colors
for different parts and different commands.
So for example, for the output of Git branch
this is the syntax, color space branch.
And then indented.
I can then change what the current branch looks like
what a remote branch looks like,
what a local branch looks like.
I can change their colors.
So I'm not sure what we have right now.
If I do Git branch, okay, well I'm in detached head.
Okay, let's go back to master, Git switch master.
Okay, let's do Git branch again.
So my current branch is green right now.
And if I make another branch
let's just call this new branch.
Yeah, so it's green
and then the other branches that I have locally are black.
So I can change that.
I could say all local branches equal
and then I can come up with a color.
There's only so many color choices.
It does go into it on the docs somewhere here
but of course I can't find it.
Here we are, black, red, green, yellow,
blue, magenta cyan and white.
Let's do, I don't know, let's do cyan just to show this.
And then I can also set a weight like bold
but I guess I'll do bold, sure.
Okay, so if I save this and I run the command again
now you can see when I run Git branch the output
for all branches, except the current one I'm on
they show up as cyan and bolded.
So I could also say that current
this is just another keyword, equals yellow bold.
Now if I try it, that's my terminal's version of yellow.
These are colors that you can actually configure.
And yellow doesn't even have to be yellow
it's up to the terminal that it's being displayed in,
color is kind of a confusing topic with terminals.
Anyway, there's other things we can do, right?
Besides just bold.
I think we can do, yeah, blink, reverse
italic, strikethrough, dim.
So eh, I don't know if we want to do any of those
but I'll just show if we leave off bold
like for local branches, it's not bolded
it's just sort of the default font weight.
And then we can do other things.
Like if you wanna set the colors for Git diff
or for Git status, you can set all of those commands.
So I'll do color for diff, it looks like this.
And then indented.
We have things that we can set, including old.
So what the old stuff looks like, what color it is.
New, so right now, if I just recall this command
you can see that new is already showing up as green.
And is there any old, I don't see anything.
Lemme try a couple commits ago.
Here we are.
So you can see red and green.
And then we've got this stuff that's in cyan.
Eh, I don't know,
I don't wanna waste your time showing all this
but I'll just quickly say old is now going
to be magenta in bold.
Sure, and if I run Git diff again
you'll see I have magenta showing up
for the old, the minus signs.
So just another example of configuring things.
There are other things we can do.
You know,
you can change the text editor locally for whatever reason.
I wouldn't do this, but you could for this one repo,
there are many, many settings,
but a lot of the time you want them
to go in your global Git config.
But I just wanted to show you that you can screw around.
Well I won't say screw around.
You can have fun with this Git config file.
It's located in every .git folder.
It's just called config and I'm looking at it right here.
Kind of weird syntax, terrifying docs.
Intimidating to try and understand
but there's just so many settings you can play around with.
So you can set them from the terminal
as I showed you with a dash dash local flag.
Or you can set them manually in the file.
Okay, so that's the config file in the .git folder.

--- Inside Git: The Refs Directory ---

Instructor: So, the next piece of the .git folder
we'll cover is the refs folder.
So, in every git repo that you make,
there's going to be a refs folder
and inside of that refs folder,
there are a couple of different sub directories.
And, we'll start by talking about the heads directory.
But, actually, before that, refs for references
is where git stores all of the-
every time I've talked about a pointer or a reference,
whether it's a branch pointer or a tag,
two different ways, or two things, in git
that refer to commits, those are stored,
they actually exist, in the refs folder.
So, that's what refs is: references.
So, we'll start by taking a look at branches
in this refs/heads directory.
Git makes one file for every branch in a repo
and that file will have the name of the branch.
So, when I've shown diagrams like this in the past,
where I've shown, or I've illustrated,
branch references with an arrow,
like, a label and an arrow,
these references are just files in that folder,
in the refs/heads folder.
So, if we had a branch called dark mode,
there is a file called dark mode,
and there's no arrow,
but inside the file there's a commit hash.
It points to a particular commit.
So, in this repo, this is the react repo,
let's see, we've got three branches here
and if I just show you inside of this .git folder,
I'll just show the contents, .git/,
and then we've got refs right here.
So, I'll just print out the contents.
We have heads, remotes, and tags.
Now, you may not have all of these
depending on if you have any remotes,
if you have any tags.
Also, I forgot to mention that,
if you started with a brand new empty git repo,
things are slightly different
than if you actually have a commit in there,
if you have, you know, stuff being staged,
if you have history.
So, everything I'm talking about is
once you have at least one commit and at least one branch.
Okay, so inside of this heads directory,
I'll print that out just like this,
you'll see we have three files, one for each branch.
And, each one of those files contains a commit hash.
So, why don't I start with a git log?
Actually, let me just open up the contents here.
Okay, so I have it in VS Code,
my .git folder for this one repo.
If I look at refs, heads, here's the three files.
Let's take a look at new branch.
I think that's the branch we're currently on.
And, it just has a commit hash in here.
796 is what it starts with.
If I do git log one line,
we can see this is where new branch is.
This commit, 796.
But, we have some other branches, I think.
Actually, maybe not.
We've got this remote branch,
but all the other branches here, master, new branch-
okay, well, why don't I make a new commit instead?
As you can see, master and new branch
refer to the same commit.
Ah, this one doesn't branch from tag.
I made that a while ago in a previous video.
It refers to a different commit,
just like this slide where we have one branch
pointing or referencing one commit
and a different reference over here to a different commit.
So, if I make a commit on this new branch,
do I have any changes here?
Nah, of course not.
Let's just make a file touch newfile.jss.
Let's add new file. Let's commit it, add new file.
Okay, so, now, if I do a one line git log,
this new branch is referencing this commit, 5fb,
and we see that here.
It says 5fb. Master, though, has not changed.
It's exactly what happened here on this slide
where, if I go back a bit,
at one point, we had two branches
pointing to the same commit
and then they diverged, right?
And this dark mode reference file,
it's now pointing to a new commit.
And, when I say pointing,
it's just a commit hash stored in a file.
So, if I make one more branch, if I branch off
from where I am now, git switch -c for create.
What should we call this one?
Just chicken.
What do we see?
We have a new file in that refs/heads folder called chicken
and inside of it, it has the tip commit,
the tip of that branch.
"Which chicken?" We just created it from new branch.
So, it has the same commit hash right now.
We're pointing to the same commit.
5fb.
All right, so, inside of this directory,
we also have a tags folder
and tags are just pointers as well.
So, you see some of the tags that I created.
Each one has a commit hash
and then the name of that file is the name of that tag.
So, just another reference, hence the refs directory.
And then, this remotes folder,
you can see for each of the remotes I have set up,
there's a directory and I'll just show you
what we're looking at right now.
If we pay attention to origin here,
if I do a fetch-
so, this is a react repository.
If I do a git fetch, just everything-
it fetched from the origin by default,
which is the react repo.
Not my fork, but the official react repo.
If we take a look in here, now it's been updated
because we have this new-
remember, we talked about remote tracking branches.
It's keeping track of the commit, that origin master.
So, the master branch on origin,
this is where that tip of that branch is.
I don't have that.
That is not actually on my local working directory.
I know about it, or my git repository knows about it.
It has that commit here
and this is how it's able to do things
like when I type git status-
oh, if I go back to master, rather,
and I type git status again, it tells me you have diverged.
But, long story short, this is the same concept, right?
A reference to a branch,
but instead of a local branch that we have,
this is something that's updated when we fetched,
or when we pull, these are references to branches
that are on a remote.
So, that might be the origin remote, the master branch,
or the colt remote to the master branch.
But, there could be many, many other branches on there.
I just don't have them currently.
All right, so that's a quick exploration
of the refs directory.
It's just a place that git stores all those references.
Every time I've diagrammed something like this
where I have a branch pointer referencing a commit,
it's just a file with the name of a branch
and in that file, there's just a single commit hash
and then, there's a bunch of them, one for each branch,
and they're stored in the heads directory
where it's also a tags directory
and a remotes directory.
Okay.

--- Inside Git: The HEAD file ---

Instructor: Next up, this will be a quick one.
We'll talk about the HEAD file.
So, HEAD in all caps, that's the name of the file.
It exists in our .git directory.
So if we take a look at .git,
there it is, HEAD,
and it's just a plain text file
and it contains a reference to a commit
or to a branch reference, normally.
So as we've talked about in our diagrams,
HEAD typically refers to a branch pointer
but we can go into detached HEAD,
at which point HEAD refers to a particular commit
and that's why it's detached.
Detached, detached.
Okay, so we can take a look at it.
Currently, I'm on the master branch on this react repo.
Here's the HEAD file
and it says, inside of it, so I'll make it a bit larger.
It just says,
"Okay, take a look at whatever's in refs/heads/master"
which is a commit as we saw in the prior video.
So, it's a reference to a reference, right?
It is pointing,
if I go back, here we are,
it's pointing, in that file,
to the contents of the master reference,
master branch reference.
If I switch branches, what do we have?
Let's switch to chicken, git switch chicken.
Now it contains refs/heads/chicken
and we can take a look at that.
This is the commit it's referring to.
It's not pointing to the commit though.
It's pointing to the branch
and the branch is referring to this commit.
That's the tip of the branch.
However, I could go back, right?
If I pick one commit,
let's just pick one of them, doesn't matter.
Right here.
If I copy this hash or just a portion of it
and I do a git checkout with that hash,
we've seen it before,
I'm now in detached HEAD.
If we look at the HEAD file,
now it directly points to the commit.
So, the branch reference has not moved.
It's still pointing to that 5fb, but HEAD has.
Just like in this slide here, we detach the HEAD.
It refers to a commit.
The branch reference is still in the same place,
it's just pointing at that commit.
It contains the commit inside of the file.
Now, HEAD contains a commit
instead of containing a reference to a branch.
So now if I get out of this,
let's go, this time let's go to master,
git switch to master.
Now, HEAD is updated to reflect that change.
All right, so that's the HEAD file.

--- Inside Git: The Objects Directory ---

Instructor: So next up,
we're gonna talk about the Objects Folder.
Now, this folder we're gonna spend quite a lot of time
discussing over a couple of videos.
This is really the core of Git.
This is where all of the backups of our files,
all the content is stored, all the commits live here.
And the way that it works is a lot to explain,
but it's also interesting and I think, hopefully,
if I succeed, this section will make sense.
This is the important stuff I want to cover in this section.
It all has to do with hashing,
and we're gonna talk about things like blobs and trees.
Anyway, we'll get into that.
But in this video, I just wanna show you, it exists.
There is a folder, right?
If we look in the ".git" directory,
if I can spell it, of course, called "objects."
And if we look inside of it, it's right here.
So let me close down HEAD.
Objects here has a bunch of sub directories
at least on my repository.
I'm using this React example.
So if you have a repo and it has some history,
you'll have something in here,
but probably not the same combination, the same digits.
But anyway, we have these two digit
hexadecimal folder names.
And then inside of them there are files.
But then it tells me, "Hmm, I can't display it for you.
It's either binary or an unsupported text encoding type."
So we're not gonna be able to look at the contents.
This is what it does when it tries to display in VS code.
These are compressed, encrypted binary files.
So they're not really meant for us to look at at all.
They're meant to be small.
But they store, those files store,
all the Git history, all the commits,
all of the files and their information,
the contents of files.
Git stores full snapshots.
It does not store Diffs or changes
like a Delta between two commits.
It stores full complete snapshots, which is somewhat unique.
So we'll talk about that.
But inside of this folder,
there are really four different types of basic Git objects,
and this is what we're gonna spend
a lot of time talking about in the next few videos.
Those four types are commits, trees,
blobs, and annotated tags.
So these are four different things
that are stored in this Objects directory.
Really the core of Git.
They're all going to be hashed.
We've seen the commit hashes before,
those long, crazy strings.
We're going to learn a lot more about those
in the next couple of videos.
So where does this come from?
What does this mean?
Not the contents, but what do these file names mean,
and these folder names?
Those are mysteries that will hopefully be explained soon,
if I do my job.
I just wanted to introduce that folder.
So there it is, the Objects directory.
It contains all the data in a repository.
So in the next video,
we're gonna start by talking about hashing.

--- A Crash Course On Hashing Functions ---

Narrator: So to fully understand how Git works
we need to take a small side trip away from Git
to talk about hashing functions.
If you're familiar with the topic, the concept of hashing,
you could skip this or maybe just skim it,
we'll get back to Git specifically in the next video.
But of course, this is all connected.
So let's get going.
So you've probably come across,
I don't know why I said probably,
you have definitely come across
these long strings of characters.
They are hexadecimal characters, exactly 40 digits long.
If you're not familiar with hexadecimal,
it's base-16 instead of base-10 decimal
for a numbering system.
So base-16 means we run out of digits that we use,
at least in the decimal system, zero through nine,
so then we move on to letters A, B, C, D, E.
And F, I forgot F.
Okay, so we end up with these very long strings,
which are numbers
and they're all exactly 40 characters long.
We've seen them before.
I've used the term commit hash or just hashes.
So what exactly are those?
Well, they're the output
of something called a hashing function.
So hashing functions are a family
of functions that have one goal.
They take inputs of arbitrary size
meaning inputs of a variable size, small, large
and then spit out outputs of a fixed size.
So in this example, whatever this hashing function is,
it spits out, I'm not sure how many characters this is,
but whatever it is, you can see that both outputs
are exactly the same length, same number of digits.
It doesn't have to be hexadecimal.
Any number can be turned from hexadecimal to decimal
or to binary, right?
Numbers are numbers.
This is just one way of representing them.
They would be a little bit longer
if this was a decimal number.
Anyway, it's a fixed size.
So the input here is a sentence.
The input here is three characters.
The input could be a file potentially,
or it could be a single number,
and it spits out fixed size outputs.
So you may have come across hashing functions
in computer science contexts,
talking about data structures like hash tables,
or you may have come across the term
cryptographic hash functions,
which is a subset of hash functions.
They do the same thing, right,
they map data of some arbitrary size
to an output of a fixed size,
but they have a couple of additional constraints.
And this group of hashing functions
have a whole bunch of different applications
in information security, digital signatures,
cryptocurrencies, as well as Git.
So I'll just run through some of these really quickly.
Probably the most important one to talk about upfront
is that cryptographic hash functions
need to be deterministic,
meaning that the same input always yields the same output.
In other words, if we go back to this example,
"I love chickens" should always yield this output,
whatever it is, if that's the input,
it should always yield that output.
"LOL" should always yield this output.
So whatever the output is, it should be consistent.
There shouldn't be any variability
in what you get for the same input.
Another constraint is that a cryptographic hash function
should be a one-way function,
meaning that if you have the output
it shouldn't tell you anything about the input.
And along those lines, you shouldn't be able to guess
or infer anything about the input.
You shouldn't be able to reverse engineer
if you have the output.
So if I were to implement a password login authentication
for users on a website,
we use a hashing function to store
the hashed output of a password.
Let's say these are two passwords.
If somebody gets access to our database, a hacker
a bad actor, they see these password hashes,
they shouldn't be able to infer anything
about the actual passwords.
So that's important in a lot of situations.
Also, a small change in an input
should yield a large change in the output.
It goes along the same lines, right?
I shouldn't be able to guess.
"I love chickens" yields this.
I should not be able to guess
what "I love chicken" will yield.
They shouldn't be connected.
And then also, it should be unlikely to find two outputs
with the same value.
We want to avoid collisions whenever possible.
So mathematically, with these hashing functions
it is possible to have collisions, of course,
but the probabilities are so low
that we really don't need to worry about it.
Anyway, those are the basic rules
of cryptographic hash functions.
Now, we're talking about Git here.
We're not talking about cryptography,
we're not talking about authentication or cryptocurrencies.
But Git uses one of these hashing functions called SHA-1,
although this actually is set to change eventually.
It's something that the group behind Git has said
we plan on changing, we don't know when,
and it's gonna be a nightmare to change
but we plan on it at some point.
But at the end of the day,
there will be some replacement
that will be just another hashing function.
And this one, SHA-1 has been around for a little while
and it's a hashing function that always generates
40 digit hexadecimal strings.
So the output size is fixed, right?
We've talked about that.
And all of the hashes we've seen
are the output of the SHA-1 algorithm.
So there are a handful, more than a handful,
but there's a set of known
or commonly used cryptographic hashing functions,
including the SHA family, but there are others.
MD5, ECDSA, is that what it is, ECDSA?
I can never remember.
Yes, ECDSA.
Anyway, there's a group of these algorithms
that are most commonly used.
I just wanna end this video by demonstrating
some of the principles of this SHA-1 algorithm
or any cryptographic hashing function.
There are many websites that let you play around
with different hash functions.
So I've selected SHA-1 here,
and then I can put any input in here,
like H lowercase, I'll hash it.
And here's the output that we get.
40 characters of hexadecimal.
But I could also do H E, or how about a capital H?
Just to show you, we get a very different output, 27D54.
Now we have 7CF, completely different,
there is no connection.
Now, if I do something that's really, really long,
like imagine a whole file of JavaScript,
or a couple thousand lines of CSS.
I'm just gonna duplicate this a bunch of times.
We're still only going to get 40 characters out.
Okay, so Git uses this algorithm, SHA-1.
You can see some of the other hashing functions here,
common cryptographic hashing functions.
But for us, we only care about SHA-1.
We don't need to know anything about how it works.
We just need to know that it satisfies the requirements
to be a cryptographic hash function,
even if it's not that commonly used these days
outside of Git, it is used in Git.
And let's talk about how in the next video.
So that's coming up.

--- Git As A Key-Value Datastore ---

-: Okay, so if you skipped the last video
because you know hashing functions
the only thing you miss relevant to git is
that Git uses a specific hashing function called SHA one.
Although this is set to change eventually it still
uses SHA-1 it generates 40 digit hexadecimal numbers.
Exactly what we've been seeing
this is the output of the SHA one algorithm.
This is as well, and these are commit hashes, right?
40 digit commit hashes.
But Git actually uses SHA one in many, many other places
not just to generate commit hashes.
If you recall, let me find the slide.
I mentioned that there are four types
of git objects, four things
four types that Git can store, including commits
but then there's also trees and blobs and annotated tags
all four of which are hashed using SHA one.
So we're gonna get to all four of those data types
or object types throughout the, the course of this section.
But I wanna start by just explaining something about Git.
Git is a key value data store
meaning that we can put data into Git, right?
We ask Git to store something for us.
That could be a file, it could be a folder
or it could be a hundred files in folders.
We could even just tell Git to store a piece of text for us
which we really don't do because all the times we
we make texts in a file, but I'm about to show you
we can just give git a piece
of text and have it store that as well.
So we can put all sorts of content into a Git repo.
And Git is going to hand us back a unique key
that we can then later use to retrieve that content.
Like when you go to a, if you ever go to a bar or a club
or a concert venue and there's a coat check, right?
They, they take your coat, they give you a unique key
that corresponds to your coat, and then later on you go back
and say, hey, here's my key, gimme back my coat, please.
So the keys that we get back in git are SHA one check sums
or the output of the SHA one hashing function.
So here's a demo.
Imagine we have a file called App js, and I'm using Git to
track the changes, right?
I've made one version of it and then a second version of it.
And for each version, I've used Git to store that file
and its contents.
Now that's actually somewhat complicated to understand
'cause it does store files and contents separately
but we'll get there.
Anyway, each one actually gets its own unique key.
So you can see the keys here.
Okay, so they, they're the output of SHA one, just
like a commit hash, and they each correspond to some value
some piece of data.
So if I have one of those keys and I tell Git
please give me the content for this key, it's able to
use that and figure out, oh, I know what I stored
under that.
It's V two of app js.
Here you go.
So we've seen a, a basic version of this using
commit hashes, right?
Where we say things like, check out this commit hash.
I want to use, I wanna view the contents of this commit.
And we give, Git that
commit and then it can go
look up corresponding information.
But what we haven't seen is
that Git uses these hashes all over the place.
It's fundamental to how GIT works
but so much of it is hidden behind the scenes.
So in the next few videos, we're gonna walk through this
we're going to see these different data types
and the role that SHA one hashing function plays.
Not just to make commit hashes, but also
for trees and blobs and then also annotated tags.
But they're kind of an afterthought for us.
So let me summarize that hopefully quickly.
Git allows us to store any sort of data in it
and it will hand us back a key for that data.
And that key will be a SHA one hash that we can then use
at a later date to retrieve the information we stored.
So a key value data store
we store stuff in there and it gives us a key.
We can then come back and give it the key to get that value.
So we'll see that in the next video.

--- Hashing With Git Hash-Object ---

Instructor: All right, so in this video
we're gonna take a peek at some of the internals of Git.
Specifically, I'm gonna show you a command
called git hash-object that I never really use,
except when I'm teaching,
but I do think it explains a lot about how Git works.
Now, remember what we said in the last video,
Git is a key-value data store.
We can give it any sort of information,
including just a simple letter, or a sentence,
let alone files, like we normally do,
and it will give us back a unique key.
So this command, git hash-object, is one way of doing that.
We give it some data
and then it will give us back a unique key,
a corresponding SHA-1 hash, based upon that data.
Remember how a hashing function works,
we don't really care about the internals and how it works,
but we care about the fact that you give it some input,
it doesn't matter the size,
it gives us an output that is always 40 hexadecimal digits.
So this example here, git hash-object and then a file,
is gonna take the content from a file
and then it returns a unique SHA-1 hash
that would be used to store our object,
but it does not actually store anything, in this form.
So this won't store anything for us,
but there's a variant I'll show you where we can tell Git,
actually store this, store this information,
and it will create a new entry in the objects directory.
Remember we talked about it, the objects directory
is where all the information eventually is stored.
All of our files and their contents
and all this stuff we're about to talk about.
So git hash-object on its own
is not gonna be that useful, just like this.
But the next thing I wanna show you
is a somewhat complicated looking variant.
This allows us to hash something that is not a file.
This right here, echo 'hello',
if you're not familiar with the echo command,
if I just echo anything,
it's just returned right back to me,
you know, echo, echo, echo and so on, except only one time.
So we can take that output,
which is just hello in this case,
and then we can pipe it over to git hash-object
and we pass in the --stdin,
that's one of the options that we can pass,
to tell git hash-object that we want it to hash
from the standard in, meaning hash this 'hello'.
It's a very complicated way of telling it,
we don't have a file for you to hash,
just hash this right here.
So let me demonstrate this.
All right, so I'll echo something, we can do "hi"
and then | and then git hash-object and then --stdin.
And notice, it's giving me back a SHA-1 hash, a checksum.
It's 40 characters hexadecimal.
And every time that I call it with that same line,
every time I hash "hi", I should always get the same output.
Remember, it's deterministic.
The same input should always yield the same output.
So I could try this with something else.
What would be another example? How about "hello"?
We get a different output, same length,
40 characters hexadecimal, but very, very different.
So at this point,
I actually haven't even initialized a Git repo.
So the commands that I've showing you there
is like a Git utility,
in the same way that I can run git init anywhere,
my machine just knows git init.
I can run git hash-object anywhere,
but now I'm in a new folder and I'm going to run git init.
It's not a repo.
And then, over in VS Code, I've opened the .git directory.
So I'm showing you the contents here, right?
If I do, ls .git, it now exists.
This is the initial state of .git.
Objects, it has these two folders, info and pack,
but they don't have anything in them
and they don't really matter to us right now.
So objects does not have any of our content in it.
It's just the blank object slate.
All right, so now if I try running one
of these commands again,
like echo "hello" | git hash-object from the standard in,
right, we see that output.
I just wanna make it very clear.
Objects is not changing at all.
We're not storing anything in Git.
This is just saying hello Git.
If you were to store this object,
or this information, just "hello", if you were to store it,
what key would it be stored under?
And that's the output, but it doesn't store it.
However, if we add on this additional option, -w,
I think it's just dash write, w for write,
this is going to tell Git to actually store our object,
actually take this information,
in our case, the string "hello", take that word,
hash it with SHA-1 and then store that.
So after we run this command,
whether we do "hello", or some other string,
I'm gonna do "hello" because it's simple
and I kind of recommend that you follow along,
if you want to, with the same exact string,
so "hello", as well,
because it will make a more consistent experience for you.
'cause this is gonna come back.
All right, so if I just add in the -w,
just wanna verify, prove, nothing in there.
Now, we got this hash as our output, let's hit enter.
We get the same output.
But now, if we go to objects, it might take a moment.
Well, for whatever reason
VS Code is not wanting to refresh and show me.
Let me try refreshing here.
Okay, there we are.
Whew. Okay, so (chuckles) it is indeed here.
There's a new folder, ce.
Now, that's a coincidence.
Let me show you that output again,
of course I, wiped the screen.
But if we run this command,
that hash that we got starts with ce, ce and then 013.
So what do we have? Ce and then what do you know?
0136 and so on.
So there's this entry in the objects folder
and there's a folder inside ce, just two characters,
and then the rest, the 38 remaining digits
are used to name this file.
So this file is the most basic way that Git stores content.
This file actually contains our content
and in this case it was just "hello",
but it's been compressed and encrypted.
So we don't, we can't read it, right?
It's stored as binary in there, but it is in there.
We have successfully stored our first piece of data
in our Git database, the very, very manual way.
We almost never would do this.
I can't imagine really doing this outside of teaching,
but I hope that this explains a tiny bit.
We're not done, there's a lot of pieces of the puzzle here,
but I hope you understand that this git hash-object,
with this annoying syntax, is taking our input "hello",
which always returns the exact same output from SHA-1,
this output,
but we told it to write, with -w previously
and Git took that and it created a file for us.
It's not exactly the same name, right?
It's 38 of 40 digits that are the same.
And then, the first two digits
were used to create the folder.
That's just what Git does.
So the objects directory,
if we had two hashes that happen to start with ce,
they would share this folder.
But then,
if we have another hash that starts with something else,
which I'm about to do here, what should we do?
Let's do "goodbye", as well.
So echo "goodbye", and then pipe that,
basically send the output to hash-object
and tell it to expect standard in.
So I'm not writing this yet, but we get dd7e.
So when I add this -w, I'm telling Git,
all right, store this, store "goodbye".
So it does this all the time, but not with strings,
with files, but I'm telling it store "goodbye".
So we're gonna end up with a folder called dd
and then a file, 7e1, blah, blah, blah, all the way to a6.
And inside, will be a binary, compressed,
encrypted version of "goodbye"
that we won't be able to read, at least not with human eyes.
All right? So I'm gonna add that -w and hit enter.
And of course, we get the same output
because it was the same input.
It's deterministic.
We should always get that same hash,
assuming we give it the same exact input.
So not an extra space, not an extra,
you know, uppercase, lowercase, hidden character.
Exactly the same.
So I'm gonna have to refresh here. There we are.
Now, we have dd and then 7e1.
Okay, so I have two strings, two pieces of text
that I have successfully put into Git.
In the next video, I'll show you how to get them out,
using another Git command that is pretty rarely used.

--- Retrieving Data With Git Cat-File ---

-: So, now that we've seen how to store data
in a very low-level way in Git.
Normally, we use a whole bunch of other commands,
and Git hashes things for us,
but we can manually tell it,
"Hash this, turn it into a Git object, and store it."
So, we've done that a couple of times,
and we got these keys back.
Right, we have this one and this one.
So, imagine that I don't know what was stored in there,
or it was a really long file that I stored.
I want to retrieve that data out.
I have the key,
and Git is storing the information in these files.
I just can't read them.
So, to get it out, there's a function,
or there's a Git command called "cat-file,"
"git cat-file," and then we pass in an object-hash.
So that could be a commit hash,
or it could be one of these hashes.
This is not from a commit;
it's from something called a blob.
We'll go into more detail.
But any of these hashes we get in Git
they all are tied to a Git Object, one of four types.
And we can get information,
we can read them out using git cat-file.
Now this -p option tells Git
to pretty-print the contents of the object
based on the type of object it is.
So, I could pretty-print a commit
if I had a commit, using -p,
it would detect it to commit and print it out as a commit.
But we're gonna try it with what we have.
These are not commits.
So I can copy the whole hash and do a git cat-file -p,
and then I'll pass in the whole thing just to start.
And what do you know?
It says, "Hey, I have something stored for that.
I have, hello."
I can also give it way fewer, right?
I could just give it a couple of digits,
and it can figure it out.
Let's do our second value that we stored,
which was "goodbye."
We got back "dd7e1."
Let's just do that.
So instead of the whole hash,
just that little bit, and it knows what it stored,
we gave it the key, it gave us back "goodbye."
All right.
So, now what I wanna show you is a little bit different.
I wanna use files.
I wanna have, actually, just two versions of the same file,
both of which we'll be able to store manually
using the command git hash-object.
And then we'll be able to get those versions back out.
So let's make our new file.
I'll just touch dogs.txt.
And then I'm gonna open it up in my editor.
Alright, here it is.
And I'll put in some of my dogs,
Rusty and Wyatt,
rest in peace, Rusty and Wyatt.
All right, so I have one version of this file.
If I look at that file, that's what we have in that file.
So, I can tell Git to hash it,
I can do the same thing,
git hash-object.
I don't have to bother with the echo and the standard in
because I'm gonna provide it a file.
I want it to tell me what is the hypothetical hash
I would get back if you stored this?
I'm not storing it 'cause I didn't do -w.
That's what we get back.
So, assuming that file doesn't change...
Remember how this works.
The same input gives you the same output.
Well, that's really important for how Git works
because it can very quickly tell,
"Oh, this file hasn't changed.
It's giving me the same hash that it had before."
But as soon as I change anything,
anything, a single space,
a capital letter to a lowercase,
the entire hash changes, and Git can detect that.
Anyway, I'm going to store it now.
So, I'm gonna add the -w.
All right.
So, git hash-dogs.txt -w.
And if you're following along here,
you can type this exactly as you see it
or just make note of, you know,
the fact that your hash is different
and just use that hash when we come back to it.
So, just be consistent, right?
If you do follow along with me,
make sure you're getting this hash.
If you don't, it's not a big deal.
Just use that hash that you're getting
instead of the one that I have.
All right?
So, I'm gonna do -w,
I'm saying store this version of that file, dogs.txt.
And I'll have to refresh VS Code,
but there it is, "39 e27..." whatever.
And that's what it starts with, right?
"39e27..." blah blah blah.
So now, if I do a different version...
If I change what's in this file, Rusty, Wyatt,
pretend, you know, I'm using Git.
We we haven't made any commits to be clear, right?
If I type git log, no commits.
But if I add another dog on here, Rusty, Wyatt,
I had a childhood dog named Cheyenne,
and how about Sirius Black, another great dog.
Okay?
So, a new version of this file,
if I try hashing that,
I won't store it just yet, but if I hash it,
we get a very different hash now
because things have changed.
Small change, any change should lead to
a large change in the output.
So, still 40 characters,
that hash that we get back from trial one from Git,
but it's very different.
So, let's store that one too.
All right?
So, I'm gonna do git hash-object dogs.txt -w for right.
So, we should see a new folder called FD,
and a file called this "915," and so on.
So, whatever you did, if you had changes,
you should get a different hash.
And in that .GIT/objects folder,
there now is an FD,
at least in my example, 915.
So, I can't read it, but we can use the cat command, right?
Git cat-file, which if I scroll up...
Where did that go?
We used it recently, maybe not.
Anyways, there it is, cat-file.
And then I can provide that hash.
So, either one of these hashes.
If I do this, let's take this one.
Git cat-file, and I provide that hash...
Well, it yells at me
'cause I forgot to provide the -p option for pretty-print.
There we are.
So, we see the first version.
Actually, this is the second version, rather.
But if I take the other one,
and this is where it gets kind of annoying
to watch me do this,
but remember I have two versions.
This was the second one, this was the first one.
I'll just copy part of that hash.
And then I'll do the same thing,
git cat-file -p, I forgot that.
This was the other version.
So, Git is storing both of these.
I can delete the file entirely.
I could get rid of this file, dogs.txt,
but as long as I don't delete .git,
it still has both of these versions in there,
and I can get them out without even making a commit.
I told get to store those things for me manually.
So, let's say I delete everything from...
Let's just delete the contents.
I won't delete the entire file.
Okay?
If I wanted to restore the contents,
I'll take the hash that we got back,
this one that starts with "fd9," just like that.
Whatever you got back, copy it.
And then lemme clear this.
I'm gonna do a git and then cat-file -p,
pass in that hash.
But this time I'm going to add it into that file.
Is it dogs, dog?
Dogs.txt
And take a look.
It's been restored for me.
And if I use the other hash, which I can't remember,
but I could even just look in here.
I think it was "39e275."
We'll see if I'm right or not.
Let's see.
"39e275."
There it is, Rusty and Wyatt.
So, what I'm doing here is telling Git,
"Please go and take this key,
find the corresponding value that was stored under that key
and then take the contents of that file."
Right?
Each one of these files
it's binary, it's compressed, it's encrypted.
Take that, turn it back into something that makes sense.
And then stick it in dogs.txt.
So, I could still delete that file,
I could empty it out.
I could have some radical changes in here.
Which I mean we do this all the time with Git, right?
And then we realize, "Oh shoot,
I wanna go back to an older version of this file."
Well, Git stores them all in here,
not because we're running this command
or because we're running git hash-object,
but it's the same principle.
Git is able to hold onto those files.
It's storing them in that objects directory.
And then at any point we can say,
"Okay, please go give us that."
Let me redirect that into dogs.txt,
and we're back to normal.
Okay, so we're one step closer to understanding things.
We have not made a single commit,
just wanna be very clear.
We have only hashed things, hashed files,
and hash strings of text and stored those,
and we've been able to retrieve them
using the hashes we get back.
But that's not a commit.
In fact, there's something called a blob.
And in the next video we'll expand more on blobs.

--- Deep Dive Into Git Objects: Blobs ---

Instructor: Alright, so in the last few videos we've seen
that we can manually tell GIT to store characters,
single strings like hello and goodbye
and it will store them in the objects directory.
It creates a file using the hash.
So here I'm just showing, you know the, the hash file.
I'm not showing the subdirectory.
It's nested inside of technically the hash.
The first two characters make the directory name right
and then the other 38 make up the file name.
But anyway, it stores the contents in this case, hello,
in the file and it names it with this key with the hash.
And then I can put something else in there like goodbye
and chicken.
Or I could have different versions of files,
which is more realistic.
I can have a hundred lines in a file versus a thousand lines
in the same file or store 10 different files.
Git is going to create objects for each of them. And then,
at any point, we can manually say, Hey, here's the key
for something, please go give me the corresponding data.
And we saw Git was able to do that.
So at this point, everything that we have stored
all of the stuff in this objects directory,
they are examples of one type
of a Git object called blobs,
binary large objects blob.
So this is one type of an object Git can store.
Remember there are four. Commits are one, blobs are another.
Something called trees, we'll see next.
And then annotated tags.
We don't care about those so much.
But really blobs, commits and trees are the most important.
So a blob is used to store the content of a file.
It is just the content of a file, just the insides.
It doesn't include even the file name
it's just the content.
So what we've done so far is created a couple of blobs.
This is a blob, this is a blob, this is a blob.
This is a blob.
They are just content that we've stored.
Now what's interesting, as I said
is that the file name is not included.
So you can visualize a blob like this.
This is the content in a file, some JavaScript file.
Git of course keeps track of a file name,
and that's where trees come in.
But Git stores the contents of a file separate from the name
and then each blob gets its own hash.
We've already seen that.
These are blobs.
We created a blob.
It got this hash.
This is a blob, it has this hash, 39 E 275.
This is a blob, CE 0136.
Blobs are a building block
of the way that we use gits, where we have different files
and different contents and different versions and commits.
They play a very important role, as you'll see
but on their own, a blob is just a Git object
that stores the contents of a file.
Doesn't even include the file name
but it does get its own hash.
So it's not a commit hash, it's a blob hash.
They might look like a commit hash, but that's just
because they're all 40 character hexa decimals, right?
It's impossible to tell them apart
and they're the output of the same shah one function.
Anyway, that's an intro to blobs.
In the next video we get to talk about trees.

--- Deep Dive Into Git Objects: Trees ---

Instructor: Okay, so in the previous video,
we talked about blobs, and it's kind of probably confusing
at this point.
We said blobs store the contents of files,
but not even the file name.
Just the contents of files.
Now, that's fine, I guess,
if we wanna do things like we have been doing,
where we're storing a couple of words,
or the content of a single file,
and then spitting it back out,
asking Git to return it back to us.
But in a large project, with hundreds of files
in nested folders, and the crazy structure,
if I can just tell Git, check out this commit,
or switch to this branch, and it can change
all of those files, all of those folders,
it might delete some in my working directory.
It might add a whole bunch of stuff.
How is it able to keep track of that structure?
It's not just the insides of the files,
it's the relationships between the files.
It's the structure of the directories.
So that's the role of tree objects.
Trees are Git objects that are used to store
the contents of a directory.
So blobs store the contents of a file,
and trees store the contents of a directory.
So trees actually contain pointers
that can refer both to blobs and to other trees.
So think about it this way.
If we have one folder,
and inside that one folder, there is one file,
well, Git would represent that with one tree,
and that tree would point to, or refer to, one blob
for that file.
So each entry in a tree, you can visualize it like this,
contains the type.
Is it a blob or a tree?
The two things that a tree can refer to,
or can reference.
And then for each entry, we've got the hash.
So this is not the commit hash.
This is a blob hash, in this case.
Right?
We saw a blob, like this one.
1F7.
It's the contents of some file.
Well, here's a tree.
And it references that contents, that blob, 1F7,
and it gives it a name.
App.js.
And then down here, it references another blob.
Here's the hash.
So it's not storing the contents in the tree.
That's what the blob is for.
This is the structure.
This is the content.
So we end up with references to blobs,
but also references to trees,
because we have nested directories, often.
So in this case, in this tree,
we're representing app.js, and README.
Two files, two blobs.
But then, there's an images directory
and a styles directory, and each one of those
would be represented with its own tree.
And there will be blobs, most likely, in there,
and then maybe more trees.
So hopefully this diagram helps
explain it a little bit.
If this is my folder structure, two files,
index.html, main.js, and then a directory,
nested, called styles.
Apps.css is inside, nav.css is inside.
Well, Git would have a single tree to represent
this entire directory.
So we've got a tree.
And then it has a blob that it refers to,
and it names it index.html.
So that's the contents of that file.
Remember, the blob itself does not store the name.
The tree stores the name.
And then it references the hash of that blob.
So this is that connection between a file name
and the contents.
1F7, that's this blob.
Okay.
So then the same thing for this main.js file.
It points to that blob, whatever that hash is,
and names it.
But then, it refers to another tree called styles.
And that tree contains two blobs.
App.css refers to one blob.
Nav.css refers to another blob.
So here's a more fleshed out diagram,
complete with the actual hashes that match.
So you can see, we have a tree.
This tree has its own hash.
Every tree has its own hash.
It's a Git object.
So this is stored in the objects directory.
And we see there's a blob, 1F7A7, right here.
So that is hashed and stored,
and is called index.html.
Here's the blob, this is the tree that refers to it.
Here's another blob, BE321.
That matches this.
And it's called main.js.
It's a blob.
So whatever is in that file
is the contents of a file called main.js.
And then we've got a tree, styles,
so that's a directory.
98287.
That's the name of that hash.
It's not the name, but that's the hash we see here.
And that tree stores two blobs, 10ABB,
which is app.css,
and then FFE77, which is nav.css.
Those are the contents there.
So the last thing I'll show you in this video,
we're not gonna make any trees right now,
but I'm gonna show you that in an existing repo,
that has history, we can view trees,
just like we could use cat file to view blobs.
We can use cat file to view trees,
and we don't have a tree to reference
in our own repository that we've been working on,
but this is the react repository,
or any repo we've worked on.
If we have some commits that we've made,
and we've added some files, and folders and stuff,
we will have a tree, at least one,
as we'll soon see, every commit references a tree.
Anyway, this command, git cat file -P,
we've already seen,
but this syntax, master, and then this caret tree,
that syntax is a particular way to refer
to the tree object that is pointed to
by the tip of our master branch.
So the last commit on master,
every commit refers to a tree.
This just gives us the most recent tree.
So let me show you that.
This is that react repo that has all sorts of commits,
lots of files in here.
You can see them.
A couple directories, okay?
Really just fixtures, packages, and scripts,
and then files.
Now, if I do Git, cat file -P,
and then I'm going to do that weird syntax.
So master and then caret above the six tree.
Like that.
And I hit enter.
It prints out, it pretty prints a lot of stuff.
We could ignore this over here.
It's just a file mode.
Doesn't matter.
But it also shows us if it's a tree or a blob,
and then the hash for each,
and then the name.
So we can see for each file,
we've got, let's see, circleCI.
That's a file.
Somewhere over here, it's a hidden file,
so it's not showing up there.
Let's keep going down.
Here we are.
Authors.
That's a blob.
Right?
So the contents are stored with this hash.
And I could actually view the contents
if I wanted to.
Let's take a look, how about, sure.
The read me.
I could copy this, just I'll keep it on my clipboard.
But then I'll also show you there's trees, right?
Here's a tree object for the fixtures directory.
Here's another one for packages,
and another for scripts.
There we are, the three directories.
So I'll just show this here.
If I take this hash that I copied.
This was a blob hash.
Remember, I can do cat file -P, if I can type.
Here we are.
Pass in that hash.
And it's showing me the contents of the read me.
This is all the stuff from that read me file.
So quite a bit of stuff that it's storing there.
It's not too much.
The last thing I wanna show you
is that another option for this cat file command
is to actually tell us the type of something.
What type of Git object.
If I do -T, it tells me it's a blob.
But if I instead do this,
Git cat-file, well, actually,
why don't I just show you?
If we look at the tree again,
if I pick one of these trees,
like this tree object that represents
the fixtures directory,
if I do the same thing,
git cat file -T.
With that, it tells me it's a tree.
So there are two types we've covered so far.
Blobs and trees.
We haven't seen how to make a tree in the same way
that we saw how to make a blob manually.
I showed you an existing repository
that's react repo.
But all that you need to know for now
is that trees represent folders.
The structure of a directory,
and inside of a folder, we can have files,
but we can also have other folders.
So the tree itself contains,
it's not an actual table, like you see here,
but inside of it, it stores a bunch of entries,
references, to blobs, and to other trees.
Each one has a name,
and each one has a hash,
a blob hash, or a tree hash.
And each tree, as we've seen, has a hash,
and that's all I'll say for now about it.
I know it's getting kind of complicated,
but this is hopefully all gonna come together soon.

--- Deep Dive Into Git Objects: Commits ---

Instructor: So now we finally get to talk about Commits.
Our good friend, we've been working
with Commits for quite a long time.
We've seen these commit hashes
but now let's talk about the actual underlying structure
of the Git object, the commit.
So when we make a commits, Git generates a new commit,
Git object, and it stores that, just like it stores
all the other objects the blobs and trees we've seen,
it hashes them it makes a file over here
in the objects directory.
First two digits make a folder.
Inside of that 38 digits of the hash that are remaining
are the name of that encrypted binary compressed file.
Okay, so commits are going to be stored in there as well.
What we haven't really talked about
is what a commit actually contains.
We know that it contains a message
because we provide that message.
We've seen that it includes the author
but what we have not really talked about
is the fact that commits also include a reference
to a parent commit.
We've mentioned that,
but we haven't gone into a ton of detail.
So that's a reference to the hash
of the commit that came before.
So really all we need to get the entire chain,
the entire history of a Git repo is just a commits
that links back to a parent
and then we can go look at that parent,
it links back to another parent
and that links back to another parent.
Anyway, commits have a reference to the parent commits
but also they have a reference to a tree object.
So this tree object is just like
the tree objects that we've seen, like this,
where a tree can reference other trees and also blobs.
So you could visualize it this way instead,
every commit has a hash, right?
All the contents are hashed to generate this.
There is the parent at the beginning of this repo.
There's no history.
So a parent just doesn't exist on this one commits.
There's an author committer, there's a message.
But the tree is the most important part
that I want to talk about.
When we run Git Commit,
Git creates this new commit object for us
and it sets the parent to be the current head commit.
So that makes sense probably, right?
If we make a new commit,
it's going to have the parent of our current head.
So it would go over here and point back to this one.
But also, the tree that it stores in this commit,
the tree is the current content of the index,
the staging area.
So there's an actual index file, but basically,
everything that we have worked on, all our changes,
everything we have staged and prepared to commit,
when we actually run, Git Commits a tree is generated.
So that tree will reflect the contents of the index
and then that is included in the commit.
Then we have the parent that references the parent commits.
So that's giving us the history, right?
So this is giving us the actual contents of the directory,
our changes, and that tree is going to include,
most likely other trees and blobs.
And then there's the metadata, author, committer, message.
And then that whole thing is hashed.
And we end up with this commit hash.
So if I make a new commit, remember what I said here,
that when we make a new commit,
the head commit is going to be the parent
of that new commit.
So this was head right here,
now head is here and it points back,
this commit refers back to the commit before it,
the parent.
So every commit is tied to a tree
and that tree is something that represents
the structure of the application.
And in turn, the blobs that it contains all the data
in the files.
So we could go look at any commit
and we can see that tree for that commit.
We can take a look, we can inspect it.
And then of course if we check out a commit,
if we make a new branch based upon a commit,
Git is going to take that tree and use it as the basis
for our working directory.
So let me demonstrate that.
Lemme just show you an example here, another diagram.
So here's this structure,
we've talked about trees referring to blobs and to trees
but a commit includes one tree.
So this would be the state of our application
at this time of the commit.
And then we have the commit message and so on.
So every commit has a tree like that.
So here's a much more expanded diagram
that just shows that the details, right?
If you look at the hashes all match.
So this commit, its tree, it's snapshot C387,
that's this one right here.
And then the tree has blobs and trees and so on.
So let me try to demonstrate this.
Let's make a simple repo.
We'll just start from...
Well we've got this dog repo already.
Right? This one I have open.
I haven't made any commits.
So if you wanna follow along, right?
If you have a new repo, you haven't made any commits,
that will work for us.
So right now there are no commit objects.
I have added manually, I've added some blobs
but you don't need those for this demonstration.
What we do need to do is make an initial commit.
So I have this one file dogs.txt.
Why don't I just commit that?
So I'll do something like Git add dogs.txt,
Git commit, add dogs file or initial commit or something.
Okay?
So I just made a commit.
And if we look at that commit with Git log,
we see the commit hash, we see the author,
we see the date and the message.
But there is more to this commit.
If I copy this hash, we can use the same command we've seen,
cat file, Git cat file
and then let's do dash T for type.
And we see that we have a commit object.
Also, 79DD6, let's remember that.
Over here, what do we have?
79, whoops, there it is.
In the objects directory of dot Git, DD6.
This is where my commit is stored.
But I can actually view much more about it.
I can pretty print it using Git cat file dash P,
which we've also seen.
We've printed trees, we printed objects or rather blobs,
they're all objects.
This is a commit.
And now what we see is a little bit different.
When we pretty print this commit hash
we actually end up seeing the tree.
So remember, every commit contains a reference to a tree
and this tree represents the structure of our application,
the snapshot of our directory, the app,
at this point in time when we made the commit.
So we could copy this
and you'll see different hashes almost guaranteed,
but if you are following along,
we can verify that is indeed a tree, right?
If we do Git cat file dash T for type, it's a tree.
But I can also do Git cat file dash p.
And we see, okay, here's the output
or here's the contents, rather, of the tree
just one file dogs.txt.
But now, let's make a second commit
and let's do some other changes.
Why don't we make another file in here?
So what do we have, dogs?
Let's just do, you know, cats?
I'll just do it from the command line.
So I'm gonna do echo, meow, meow
and I'll redirect that into a cats.txt file.
You could also just make that file yourself.
Oh, I don't have the directory open here.
I have just.gits. But anyway, I have a file.
If we look at it, it says Meow Meow.
All right, so now if I do a Git status
I'll add that cats.txt and then I'll commit.
Let's just go with add cats file.
Okay, so now we have two commits, right?
Our first one, but this new second one,
if I copy this hash, first of all, 5119.
We'll see that over here somewhere.
I may need to refresh this.
Where are you? Here it is.
5119.
All right, so this is that commit object stored here.
Okay, so if we use cat file, Git cat dash file,
we do dash T, we see this is indeed a commit.
But if I do the same thing with dash p.
Now we see it has a parent commit
and this parent commit is the only other commit we have.
Hopefully you remember it was 79DD.
That is correct.
It's referencing the commit that we made first,
there's only two.
So this was the first one and it has a reference to a tree.
And this is a different tree.
If I inspect this tree, Git cat dash file dash p
and then I don't need the whole thing,
but just a part of this hash for the tree.
Now we see it has two blobs.
Okay?
So the first tree from the first commit,
that snapshot, had one blob for one dogs file.
That's all we had.
This one, this tree has two blobs.
But what's important to note,
we didn't change this dogs file.
So Git doesn't give us a new blob, it keeps the same object,
it has the same hash, meaning it didn't change.
I can prove this. So we have FD91.
If I go look at this other commit,
so the parent commit this is gonna be, ugh,
I'm scared to do this 'cause it's just so many commit hashes
and so many crazy looking shaw hashes.
But if I look at this earlier commit, the first one,
Git cat file dash p, and then we look at that tree,
Git cat file dash p with a tree.
What do we see?
One blob, this was the first snapshot I made.
We only had the dog's file, FD91.
So here, my second commit, we looked at the tree,
the snapshot, and there was one blob for cats, that's new,
but the second blob is for dogs and it still is FD915
because it never changed.
But now if I change that file,
right, I do something different in the dog's file,
like I change it to be Sirius Black,
character from Harry Potter.
So that's the new contents of the dogs file.
Well now if I add that change, Git add dogs,
Git commit dash M, update dog's file.
If I commit, well, I just did commit
and I look at that new commit,
this one here, 4EC and so on,
if I take a look with Git cat dash file dash p,
all right, it's referencing the parent commit.
That was the second commit, 5119,
just remember those numbers.
And this tree now, 0E37, blah blah.
If we inspect that cat file dash P, it's still two blobs.
One for dogs and one for cats.
But notice here, 04998,
that is a new hash for the dog's blob,
versus, if we go back up to the earlier one,
it used to be, so many, here we are, FD915.
So Git's not going to come up with new hashes
and change these objects if it doesn't need to,
if nothing changed in those files,
the contents are the same.
A blob stores the contents of a file.
So right now Git is storing this version of the file
in one blob and then it's storing this version of the file
in another blob.
And then the trees will reference one of those versions
depending on what was in that snapshot
when I made the commit.
So I'm hoping maybe some of this is starting to make sense.
If not, you know, the good news is you could still use Git
and not have to worry about this.
But this is about as far as I want to go
in exploring all of this.
There are other things we can do.
We can actually make commits and generate trees
in the same way that we created blobs from scratch.
But I think this is a good place to stop.
Okay?
So every commit includes a reference to a parent,
unless it's the first commit, there is no parent.
And then a tree,
so that's another type of Git object we've seen.
The tree will contain a bunch of references potentially,
to other trees, if it's a subdirectory or to blobs.
And a blob contains file contents.
So a tree is the place where we store
or Git stores the file name corresponding to a blob.
And then everything's hashed.
Blobs get hashed, trees get hashed, commits get hashed.
And Git uses those hashes to easily determine
if something has changed.
Because you change a single character in a file,
that blobs hashes different.
You change something in a directory,
that tree's hash is different.
But also it uses those hashes as keys
so that it can easily retrieve things, right?
Keys are supposed to be unique in a key value data store.
So if I say "Git, give me the information
from this commit, FA4."
It can easily go and find that.
Or give me the information for this blob.
We usually don't do that on a blob basis, but Git does that.
Git will restore contents in a directory
based upon the tree in a commit.
So when I switch branches,
it's going to look at the tip of a branch,
what's that commit?
Okay, what's the tree in that commit?
Let's take that and we're going to restore
the files and the working directory
based upon the state in that tree.
So that's kind of the underlying workflow
that Git goes through.
Now we're skipping a lot of stuff,
but that's the basic idea,
with Git objects, with hashing, commits, trees, blobs.
There's also this fourth type, the annotated tag.
We have talked about tags and annotated tags.
Not a big deal.
As this image loads here. (chuckles)
They're not as important right now,
to understanding how all this works
but it's another type of Git object.
They're hashed, they're stored in the objects directory.
They include metadata, who made the tag, the dates,
a tag message, just like a commit, except that a tag
is just a pointer to a particular commit.
It is not an actual commit itself.
So it kind of stores a reference to a commit.
And a commit stores a reference to a tree
and a tree stores a references to blobs.
Alright, I applaud you if you made it through all of this.
I hope some of it made sense.

--- What Really Matters In This Section ---

Instructor: So next up, we're gonna talk
about one of my favorite commands in git,
something called git reflog.
It's not one that's used all that often
but when it is used,
at least when I use it,
it's when I've screwed something up terribly
and I've lost a commit,
or I've rebased when I shouldn't have rebased,
or I want to undo something that seems undoable.
Well, with the help of the git reflog command,
often we can fix things.
We can dig ourselves out of some pretty bad situations.
So, I recommend you check this section out.
I think it's definitely worth your time.
With that said,
if all things go well,
you won't be using any of what I show you
very frequently at all.
So, I'm not gonna say anything is critical.
This is a sort of concept
where you might just Google in a time of need.
You might be desperate, "How do I fix this?"
You know, "How do I retrieve this commit that I've lost?"
And if you read some Stack Overflow post,
it will tell you the exact git reflog command
that you should use,
so it's not something you need to commit to memory.
Anyway, I'm gonna say everything in here is nice to have.
Meh, I'll put it in important.
It's between important and nice to have.
Rescuing loss commits with reflog, undoing rebases.
The one thing that I'll say really is not that critical,
well, nothing's critical, but that's not as important,
there's a video on time-based reflog qualifiers.
You'll know it when you see it.
It's not as important as this stuff.
But anyway, remember,
you won't be using this very frequently.
If all goes well
and you don't make a huge number of mistakes,
you won't need to use this command very much.
But when you do need it, it really is a lifesaver.

--- Introducing Reflogs ---

Speaker 1: Okay, so let's start talking about reflogs.
So the term reflogs is short for reference logs.
And I recognize it doesn't sound
very exciting at all or even that useful,
but trust me, we will see how these come in handy.
But they are just logs, they're just a transcript
or a record that Git keeps for us
of whenever references are updated.
So references in Git,
I've also used the term pointer,
are things like this in my diagrams where I have an arrow.
So a branch, every branch has a branch reference, right?
That is what keeps the tip of the branch.
So in my diagrams, it's been a name with an arrow
pointing to a commit.
Another reference we've seen would be HEAD.
So HEAD can refer to a branch
or it can point to a commit and detached HEAD.
There are other references as well,
things for remote branches.
There's fetch HEAD, merge HEAD,
there are different references in Git.
So Git is going to keep a record of when they change
and it actually stores them in a file.
So in my diagrams here I'm kind of indicating the
potential log for HEAD.
So a reflog, a reference log for when HEAD changes.
So here's HEAD in this hypothetical situation, it's pointing
to Feature, which in turn is pointing to this commit.
So then we make a new commit, commit H.
I'm just using letters to make it simple.
But then we switch branches.
HEAD now points to Main.
So Git actually takes note of that and it says,
oh, you just switched HEAD, changed from Main to Feature,
or other way around, I think.
It changed to Main from Feature.
And then if we switch back, Git takes note of that.
You switched to the Feature branch from Main.
So it has this running log.
We haven't seen it yet, but there is a log,
and there's actually a file that we can take a look at
for HEAD if we want to see the reflog,
the reference log in any repository.
I'm using this react repository because it has
a lot of history.
If you wanna follow along, I would just work
on any repo that has commits and branches.
And if we look in the .git folder,
there is a directory called logs,
and I can actually see it over here.
I have the .git folder open in VS Code.
Here it is, a logs directory.
And then there's a file called HEAD.
And this might be shocking,
but this file is actually readable.
It's not compressed, it's not binary, it's a lot of text.
But what we have are a series of entries in here.
So here's the first one and the second one
and the third one.
I'm pretty zoomed in, so it kind of makes it look
worse than it is.
But each one of these entries is a move
for the HEAD reference.
I'll just show you down at the bottom.
HEAD, most recently, let's see,
there was a new commit made and before that
I actually did a Git reset.
Before that, I did a commit,
but then before that I moved from some commit,
I was in detached HEAD, and I moved to master.
So it's tracking when I switch branches.
So instead of just going through a history,
you weren't even present for any of this, really,
why don't I show you what happens when I make changes,
when I actually update the HEAD reference live?
So I think what I'll do to make this easier is
actually put my terminal side by side.
Okay, here we are.
This will allow me to show you the updates happening live.
So this is the same repository.
By the way, you should not edit this file.
I just accidentally typed something in there.
You don't want to edit this directly.
These are just logs kept by Git.
Okay, so there are many ways to update HEAD.
The simplest way is just to switch branches.
So let's see what branch I'm on in this repo.
I'm on the master branch.
Let's switch to the turtle branch.
Okay, so git switch turtle, and watch right here,
we'll have a new entry added into this file,
and it says checkout: moving from master to turtle.
So it doesn't say switch, but that's what we did, right?
We checked out a branch,
we just used the git switch command.
So it took a record or it made a record.
Just like I showed in this diagram.
Git is tracking our moves,
or it's tracking the moves of the HEAD reference, rather.
So if I do something else,
how about I go into detached HEAD?
So git log, let's just see what we've got.
Let's pick some commit.
How about this one right here, 295.
If I do a git checkout and I give it a commit hash,
we know that that puts us in detached HEAD
and it tells us that.
And if I look at the log,
it now says this is where we were.
You moved from the master branch to turtle.
Well now it says, hang on, wait a minute,
you're at this commit, checkout: moving from turtle to 295d.
And that's exactly where we are.
So now if I switch back, let's go back to master this time.
We have a new entry.
It says, okay, at this time, which I haven't shown you
but there's a timestamp in here,
at this time you moved from this detached HEAD commit
to master, you're back on a branch.
All right, so we have these files that we normally
don't open up and look at.
I'm gonna show you in the next video,
there's a command we use to interact with these files.
But Git keeps these records for us when HEAD changes.
That's one example of a reflog because that's one example
of a Git reference.
But there are other things in this logs directory.
Actually it keeps track of the tip of every branch.
So here's the master reflog.
Let me make this larger.
The tip of the master branch as it changes,
there are fewer entries because it just
doesn't change as much.
Or the donkey branch or the turtle branch
or remote branches.
So you can see, for example, every time I push up to the
cult remote, the master branch, there's a record of it.
It says you updated by pushing, you updated by pushing,
you updated by pushing.
So that's all that I want to say for now.
Just with these files, just the fact that they exist,
Git is tracking, it's keeping these logs
that we can reference later.
And this can be a lifesaver at times.
If we make mistakes, if we need to access some commit hash
that we no longer see in our Git log,
I will show some demos of that.
But first I wanna talk about the git reflog command.
Instead of viewing these files directly,
we can use a command to take a peek.
So that's coming up.

--- The Limitations of Reflogs ---

Instructor: Now before we go any further,
I think in the last video I said I was gonna show you
this get Git reflog command, but first I just need
to make a very important announcement about reflogs.
I made a separate video to tell you this.
Reflogs are only local. That's the first bit.
So I could be working on a repository
with thousands of collaborators like this React repository.
This has thousands of commits
from at least I think 1,500 different people.
I don't have their reflogs.
I don't know what happened to their head
on a day-to-day or minute-to-minute basis.
That would just be absolutely overwhelming.
So reflogs are local.
Git is only storing, it's only logging my changes
to references on my machine locally.
And, furthermore, they are non-permanent.
They do expire, and I think the default
according to the Git docs is around 90 days
where old entries will be removed.
But you can actually change that.
I don't really think it's worth changing.
I wouldn't change it, but there is a way to do that.
You can make it shorter if you wanted to,
but the main takeaway from this video
is that they do expire.
So it's not a permanent record
of everything you've ever done
if you have a really old repository
with lots of work locally.
So, again, only local changes are tracked in reflogs,
and they do expire, okay.

--- The Git Reflog Show Command ---

Instructor: Okay, so now we move on
to the Git Reflog command.
So this command works with four different subcommands,
but the good news for us is we only need to care about one
which is the Git Reflog show subcommand.
The other three expire, delete,
and exists are not really used.
And when I say that I'm not just being a lazy teacher
who doesn't wanna show you the documentation
if we take a look for Git Reflog
it actually says exactly that.
For example, for expire
it says this is typically not used directly by end users,
for delete something similar.
This subcommand is also typically not used directly
by end users.
The only subcommand they really document
and show examples of is show.
So I'm not making it up
we really just need to know about show.
And the show command
or subcommand is pretty straightforward.
We pass a reference head or a branch tip
or a remote branch and then we will see a log,
we'll see a printed version of the stored Reflog.
So I'll show you that.
Let's do Git Reflog show head.
We've been looking
and we've seen this head Reflog file right here.
All these entries, I'm not sure how,
maybe 60 something different entries in here.
Maybe fewer, fifties.
Anyway, if I run this command, Git Reflog show head
we see a log similar to Git log, but it's not the same.
Okay, for one, this includes things Git log
does not include,
for example, if you check out a branch, right?
Git log doesn't care that you checked out a branch
it doesn't add a new entry.
Git log is just a log of a commit and it's parents commit
and its parents and so on and so forth.
On and on.
But it doesn't include things like checking out.
Also, this is all going to be a history of things, right?
So we could delete commit, we could rebase,
but we're still going to see entries from when we did that.
For example here, I did a reset,
this was before I was recording,
actually I recorded this video a couple times.
It was in a previous version of this video
that will never see the light of day.
So I made a reset, right?
And I deleted a commit.
But the thing is that commit was actually right here.
So this is that commit that I deleted.
And the crazy part is I still have that hash in Git log.
That hash is completely gone because I did a reset.
Anyway, we'll talk more about the differences in the utility
of Reflogs, but I hope it's clear that there's a difference.
This is keeping every single thing, assuming it's been less
than 90 days and it's all local, it's keeping track
of every change to head.
Git log is just gonna show me a lot more in this case
in terms of the number of lines.
But it's only going to show me a clear history
from one commit to its parent and so on.
So there's stuff that I've done
that I may have lost, I may have deleted,
I may have reset and rebased, I don't have record
of that on Git log, but I may have record in my Reflog.
Anyway, we see starting from the very beginning up here,
the first line is actually the most recent change
the most recent entry in the head Reflog.
And then down here is the oldest thing.
So I first cloned this repository
and so head when I cloned was pointing to this commit.
So we can see the commits
that it was referring to over time for head, right?
So currently head is pointing to this,
it's pointing to master,
but master is right here, d83.
But also we can see, you know what happened.
So in this case, I moved from a commit detached head
back to the master branch.
And then I moved from, before that I moved
from the turtle branch to detached head, right?
So this is what I did one move ago.
I went to detached head and then here most recently I left
and I went back to master.
You'll also see this notation head at curly braces a number.
So this syntax refers to a particular entry in a Reflog.
So the most recent entry is head at zero
and in my case head at 56 is the very last thing,
the oldest thing in the Reflog for head.
So this syntax can be very useful
because we can actually pass this around
and reference this Reflog entry syntax.
We can pass that to other commands.
And there's fancier things we'll get to.
I'll show you in a little bit.
But yes, each one of those lines
has its own Reflog identifier
but they are relative.
So this was the very first thing that happened
to head I cloned.
And so right now it's 56 and head zero is checking out
when I moved from detached head to master.
But if I make a new move, right
if I switch to the donkey branch I have,
and if I look at that Reflog again,
now head zero is something different, right?
This is the most recent thing.
This used to be head zero, but now it's not.
And at the bottom we now have head 57.
So the point is that these change, right?
These are not set in stone,
these numbers and each one of these,
each number is used to indicate a particular entry
in the Reflog in this case for head.
But we're not limited to looking at the head Reflogs,
for example I can pass some other reference
that we wanna look at.
Let's see the donkey branch, I don't think
I mean is there anything that's happened here?
Two things.
I first made the donkey branch
that was the commit we were on
and then I made my first commit.
So unlike the head reference, right,
the head reference is updated when I switch branches.
When I make commits
there's a bunch of things that change head.
But here this is just showing us the donkey,
tip of the donkey branch.
And that only changes
when the donkey branch itself is updated.
So switching branches doesn't do anything.
But if I make a new commit, we'll see a new entry,
echo "hahah" we'll put that in a file called haha.txt.
We'll add that.
We'll commit.
I'm just making a commit, "add haha"
Okay, so we have this new commit.
If I do a Git log
we'll see a new commit on the donkey branch, 7c1.
So that means donkey
that branch reference was updated, the tip moved.
So if I do a Git Reflog show donkey,
now we have three entries.
We added this new commit.
So that is the most recent change
the most recent entry in the Reflog.
And notice the syntax is the same here.
We have a reference name,
so it's not head, it's donkey now
but the same principle at and then some entry number.
So this is something we'll come back to in the next video.
There are other qualifiers we can pass in
but the basic syntax is the same.
This is a way of referring
to a particular entry in the donkey Reflog.
Okay, so I'll stop this video here.
We'll talk more about this syntax
and some fancy things that we can do with Reflogs up next.

--- Passing Reflog References Around ---

Instructor: Okay, so recall this syntax we've seen,
where we have the name of a reference, an @ sign,
curly braces and then some number, so far at least.
We'll stick with the numbers in this video.
This is a way of referencing,
let me use a different, different term.
This is the way of talking about an entry
in a ref log for some reference.
So in other words, head @ two is the same as saying
where head was two moves ago.
And we can pass these references around
to different commands.
So one simple one I can show you is actually
git ref log itself.
I don't really do this
but I can pass on instead of just saying everything
in the head ref log, I could say head @.
And then how about 10?
And this will give me everything
from the very beginning of the repo.
So head at 58, all the way to head at 10.
So 10 moves ago.
I don't really know why I would do that, but you can.
But we can also do things like
let's say I wanna know what head looks like two moves ago.
Well, I can do a checkout
I can do git checkout head at
two moves ago.
Now this is different than this right here.
We've seen this, this means the parent of head,
and then its parent two generations of parents ago.
So basically the grandparent commit.
But if I do head at two,
this may not even be commits
that we are or parent commits that we're going back in time.
We may be on the same exact commit
and we just switch branches
because head at two is just saying two moves ago
in the ref log for head.
So that might just be changing branches
it might be detached head, who knows,
and we could look it up.
But this is what we're saying.
Go back two entries ago for head. And,
we go into detached head because we use git checkout
and it says it took us to this commit D8363.
So I'm gonna switch out.
Nope, I can't have that zero.
There we are.
Let's do a git log one line.
So if I did git checkout head tilde two,
this is head,
this is tilde one, that's tilde two, I go to F F E.
Okay, that would be going back, right?
Two commits a parent and a parent.
So that is what this syntax would be tilde two.
But again, if I do git ref log show head,
if we look at what head two ago is,
it's this commit,
7 C 1.
That is actually the same commit we're currently on
because there's just an entry in the middle where we went
to detached head, we came back, we switched branches.
So it may not seem useful like this right?
Why would I want to go back to the same place where I am?
I'm on this commit now and I was on it two heads ago,
why would I go back to that?
But in the next video I will show you
that we can actually do fancier things instead of
just saying, you know, two moves ago
I could say last week or yesterday or an hour ago.
But also, this works
with things other than head any of these references.
We can specify an entry in a ref log using the same syntax.
So master branch at five is
five tips of the master branch ago.
And we can pass these to other commands, too.
For example, diff.
If I wanted to know, you know, what's changed
between head right now and head five moves ago.
I could do git diff head right now would be zero.
And then,
head at, let's do five
and I have to spell diff correctly with two F's.
And there we are.
We can see what's changed.
Now if I did this
with head zero and head two, nothing changed
because they're referring to the same commit.
Just two different things over that span.
Again, I'll just recap one last time.
git ref log show head.
This is head zero, I'm on seven C one and head two.
I'm on the same commit just in between.
First I moved from donkey to detached head
and then I moved from that detached head back to donkey.
So the end result is the same.
Okay, so this syntax will come up
in the next video when I show you some fancier options.
And it will definitely be important when we see how
we can use ref logs to rescue ourselves
from potentially bad situations.
How we can access information that we might view as
lost otherwise.
Anyway, next up, we'll see these fancy timed references.

--- Time-Based Reflog Qualifiers ---

Instructor: Okay, so now
on to something a bit more interesting, hopefully.
Every single reflog entry has a timestamp associated
with it.
If we take a look at one of them,
here's the head reflog for this react repo.
Every entry has a commit hash, right?
It has the user who made it,
but it also has a timestamp in here.
So this is a timestamp,
and this includes the date and the time
that the head reference was updated.
It's a Unix timestamp.
Anyway, we can use this,
or rather get can use it for us,
if we pass through some
of these nifty timed reference qualifiers.
So instead of saying, "head at five moves ago",
I can say "head at one day ago".
Or "master branch two days ago" or "a week ago"
or "yesterday".
Or I can even provide a fully flushed out timestamp
in different formats.
If I want to know at an exact time,
what did X branch look like?
But remember,
this does not go back more than typically 90 days.
But also, it only includes local changes.
So it doesn't matter what somebody else has done
and what their head looked like over the last 90 days.
It's just reflogs on your machine that are just a log
of your local changes and movements.
Okay?
So I can use this syntax in place of-
And it's the same syntax.
What we've seen here were qualifiers,
just a timed qualifier.
And this definitely can be useful.
Sometimes,
if I wanna just compare what something looked like-
Let's just take the master branch right now,
today,
compared to what it was yesterday.
You know,
I could go through the git log,
and I could format it
so that it also includes commit timestamps.
And I could try and figure
out which commit was two days ago.
Or what?
I said yesterday?
Which commit I made yesterday,
and then I could do a diff between now and that.
Or I could just do "git diff between head",
and then "head yesterday".
So at yesterday.
(keyboard clicking)
And this is what's changed
between now and yesterday on the master branch.
Although actually,
you know what?
This is between head and head.
That's probably not that useful.
I would do this
between the current master branch
and the master branch tip yesterday.
And there we go.
Less has changed.
Comparing between head and head yesterday,
I mean, who knows what branch we're on.
That's gonna impact it,
and who knows what branch we were
on yesterday at that point in time?
So we can also do things like if I do "get ref log show",
so I can filter what I look at
in the ref log instead of "all entries".
For head I can look at everything
up until two days ago.
So I can do two dot days ago,
and it includes the time for me now.
So it shows today's the 21st of February.
Here's February 19th.
So it also includes all the earlier stuff,
up until two days ago.
I also,
I believe you can do two days,
T W O.
Or I know you can.
So you can write that out.
I can also do things like,
I don't know, one hour ago.
I don't think I have anything.
How about one minute ago?
Okay.
So now we see-
Oh, it's actually the 22nd, I guess.
But anyway,
we see that we have the time included here,
and what time is it now?
11 21.
So this is the closest thing that it can go up to.
And that's probably all I'll show here.
We have these different options.
"Yesterday",
"multiple minutes ago",
"hours ago",
"days ago".
You can do "weeks ago".
I believe you can even do "months ago".
I don't know if anything will show up for me one month ago.
Yeah, it's just empty, but we don't get an invalid syntax.
It tells us, "head ref log only goes back to this date".
So this means if I wanted to go back and take a look
at the master branch a week ago,
when things were working,
I know they were working a week ago,
one option would just be "git checkout master" at,
and then one dot week ago.
So I don't have to find the commit hash.
This is just gonna take me back
to the closest matching reflog entry.
Every entry in the reflog,
every time that master tip changes,
we get a new entry with a timestamp.
And now, of course that puts me in detached head.
And if we look at this git log-
Here we are.
Actually, why don't I just do regular git log?
This was Friday, February 12th.
So the closest thing that happened
to that master tip a week ago.
And here's that commit hash, right?
But I am in detached head so I can get out of here,
but that's one way we can use that.
Now, what I'm gonna show you next,
is how we can really use this stuff if we make mistakes,
how we can undo
or retrieve seemingly lost commits and information.
And that's coming up next.
But in this video,
we saw that we can use this pattern
to reference a particular entry
in a ref log,
but instead of just passing a number,
like one or five,
we can pass in these weird,
but very nifty,
timed references
because every entry
in the ref log also contains a timestamp associated with it.
Okay.

--- Rescuing Lost Commits With Reflog ---

Instructor: So next up,
I wanna show you how we can turn to the reflogs
in times of need.
In this example video, I'll show you how we could
reset, do a hard reset and lose some commits,
but we can still retrieve the data from the reflog.
So let's make a simple situation.
I was working in that react repo.
It just had so many files and commits.
It's a little bit more confusing to take a look at.
So I'm gonna do something simple, you can follow along.
I'm not in a repo.
I'm going to init,
and I'm gonna just track the seeds
that I've planted in my garden or something like that.
So why don't I make a file
I'll call this one veggies.txt, okay?
And I'll add that file, git add veggies,
git commits -m add veggies file.
I'm just gonna build up two or three commits.
So I open this in my editor
I'll do code dot from my terminal, that's just the shortcut.
And I don't have any files except for veggies.
So what should I put in here?
Well, I have been planting some things recently
so I'll just put some of the stuff I started.
We have broccoli and rainbow chard
and what else did I plant recently?
Some kale, boring.
All right, so now I'll add my first commit, git commit -m.
I'll do am so I don't have to add that file again.
And I'll do a commit message
like plant winter veggies.
Okay, and then I don't know some other stuff.
How about cabbage and some lettuce maybe, arugula.
Did I spell that right, Arugula?
No, I think it's like that.
So then I'll commit, git commit -am, add more greens.
Okay, and then we're going to do a last commit.
Let's say I get ahead of myself
and I'm just daydreaming about
when I can actually start watermelon,
it's the middle of winter right now,
so not a good time for that.
And pumpkins, and what's another summery thing
that I grow?
Well, squash.
Okay, so if these are things
that I'm looking forward to growing, I get ahead of myself.
I add and commit them.
So git commit -am,
add summer veggies/fruits.
I guess it's not just veggies, summer seeds.
-: Okay, then I decide, oh you idiots,
you can't plant those right now, it's the dead of winter,
get that off of your list.
So this is all very silly obviously,
but imagine I've done a lot of work on some project.
I wanna get rid of that commit.
We've seen how to do this.
You may have forgotten,
because it is something that doesn't come up all that often.
But to completely undo a commit,
we pick some point that we wanna go back to.
So let's do git log oneline,
and let's go back to this point.
So we'll take that commit hash,
and then we can do a git reset, hard.
So --hard with that commit hash
and the hard will undo the changes
in my working directory as well.
So we get rid of the commit,
and then also in this case just one commit
we're resetting back to the prior commit.
But we also lose the work that we had
in our working directory.
And so, it's gone there, right?
If I type git log, that commit is gone.
So if I realize, oh you could still start them,
you have a greenhouse, I wish I did,
I don't have a greenhouse,
but I turn one of my bedrooms into a greenhouse.
If I wanted those changes back, I want that commit,
it's not here, right?
It's not on another branch or anything like that.
It's just not here, git log oneline, nope,
I don't have that.
But thankfully, that information is actually still available
in the reflog.
So if I do git reflog,
I'll just do show master or I could do head if I wanted,
but master will work for us, right?
Because I'm on the master branch by default.
Here is where we were, right?
This is where that commit was.
There's that commit hash FB5072A.
So we have access to that hash.
And here's the information.
This is when I made that commit add summer seeds.
This was one tip ago of the master branch.
So master at one is one way I could access that.
I also have access to the commit hash.
I could check it out for example.
So if I get out of here
I could do a git checkout and paste that hash in.
But remember, I didn't see this in git log.
That does put me in detached head of course.
But here it is, I see it.
So that puts me in detached head.
I'll just switch outta there
and I'll go back to the reflog.
It's still there, right?
It's just not part of my main git log.
This is the history stemming from the commit.
This commit right here, going back
to its parent and to its parent.
The summer seeds commit is just long gone.
But git still stores that information
in the .get folder it,
it will go through and every so often
remove commits that are dangling
that aren't actually connected.
So that the summer seeds commit is not attached
to anything, right?
It doesn't have a parent, it doesn't have child commits.
It's just on its own in terms of the objects directory.
It's just an entry in there.
But because the reflog still references it,
we can go and restore back to it.
So we just checked it out and went into detached head.
But if I want to go back, I wanna make this the actual
new head of my master branch.
In other words, I want to undo the fact
that I removed that commit that I reset.
I can use the commit hash or I can just do master at 1.
If I prefer, I can reference it this way.
These will be referring to the same thing for now, okay?
I can do another git reset hard master at 1,
or I could pass in the commit hash
that we found in the reflog.
And that now says the new tip of this master branch
is whatever master at 1 is from the reflogs.
And if we do a git log here,
we see that we have that commit message back
and we have that hash back.
So it was gone, right?
We didn't see it at all in the git log.
but because we had the ref log available,
we could go back and find that commit hash
or just find the correct line master at 1
and we could reset based upon that.
So even though it looks like we lost the commit
it wasn't tied to any other commits
it was floating on its own, we were able to rescue it.
And that can be extremely useful.
We just undid a hard reset.
But remember, this only works with local changes.
Reflogs only exist for stuff you've done
on your machine and they do expire.
In the next final video on reflogs
I'll show you how we could also undo a rebase
or retrieve commits that we have
to completely rewritten using git rebase.

--- Undoing A Rebase w/ Reflog - It's A Miracle! ---

Instructor: Okay, so next up I wanna show another example
of how reflogs can help save lost commits
or seemingly lost commits.
This time I'm going to perform a rebase
which when I first taught it, I made it very clear
that rebasing rewrites commits.
It makes new commits and those old ones are gone,
at least they seem to be gone until we talked about reflogs.
So let me show you an example. Let's make a branch here.
I'm working in the same vegetables, seeds, little demo.
Let's do a switch. How about flowers?
So we'll pretend I'm working on a feature branch,
the flowers feature branch where I will be, I don't know,
this is veggies.
I'll be working on the different flowers that I wanna plant
or that I'm starting in my garage or something like that.
So what should I put in here?
Why don't we just make our first commit, git add flowers.
We'll do a git commit dash m, add flowers file.
So I'm pretending, this is a feature
so I'll have a couple of commits.
Let's see, I'll add some flowers about some salmon zinnias.
And what are some other, queen lime zinnias.
Okay, so I'll do a git commit dash am just to speed it up,
add some zinnias, and then on the next line,
what's another type of flower that I grow?
How about some dahlias?
So we've got old rose dahlia.
And there's another. I'll just, dinnerplate dahlias.
I don't even know if that's really a specific one.
Okay so I'll do a git commit dash am.
I'm just gonna add one more commit after this one.
Add dahlias to flowers list.
And then how about some amaranth,
so coral fountain amaranth, and also hot biscuits amaranth.
Git commit dash am, add amaranth to flowers.
Okay, I lied. I'll do one last one.
I'll add some celosia.
Some really cool flowers by the way, these celosias.
Coral reef celosia, I'll just leave it at that.
Git commit dash am, add celosia.
Okay, so I'm done with my feature. This is my feature.
It's not exciting, but I have what,
four commits or so on this flowers branch.
I want to eventually merge them into master
but before I do that, I'm going to rebase.
I'm gonna do an interactive rebase to get rid
of some of these commits
or combine them or just, you know, clean up.
If you did not watch the section on rebasing
and specifically the portion about interactive rebasing,
I mean I can't imagine it would make any sense.
So I would check that out.
The point is more so going to be
about fixing it after the fact.
So I'm gonna do a git rebase back to here,
so an interactive rebase.
So this is head one, two, three, four.
So I'll do head tilde four,
git rebase dash I head tilde four.
And there we are.
You can see it opens up this file
for me to do my interactive rebasing in.
But let's say that I want to, I don't know,
we'll fix up these two or maybe these three.
So that will, if you don't remember,
you can see down here, fix up.
We'll squash them, basically mush 'em
into the next previous commit
but it's going to discard the log message as well.
So if I replace pick with instead F or fix up,
and I can do this for multiple, fix up,
can do it for all of them.
I'll do these three. So fix up, fix up, fix up.
What you'll see is that the contents,
the actual changes in the commits don't go away, right?
We don't lose that work but we will be rewriting history.
So I am squashing them.
I'm melding all of these down into this commit.
And so I'm gonna save and close this window
and it tells us, successfully rebased and updated.
Let's look at our git log.
And now we have this one commit here. It has a new hash.
We rewrote history
and I could repeat the process one more time as well.
I won't go back that far, but how about head tilde two?
And maybe I decide I want to fix up this one,
I wanna mush it back into this one
and then instead of doing a pick here,
maybe I want to reword the commit message instead
of add flowers file.
So I can do that.
I'll rename this or not rename it, but come up
with a new commit message and then mush this one into it.
And now it opens up, when I close outta that window,
it opens up the commit message that I can edit.
So instead of saying add flowers file,
let's go with add flowers, you know,
flowers feature or how about just add flowers,
add list of seeds, okay?
So I'm basically taking all that work I did
and combining it into one new commit with a new message.
We talked about this with interactive rebasing.
We can clean up our history.
So if this is my feature, it's simple
but this is the commit.
I'll X outta there.
And now if I do a git log,
we just have this one commit hash right there
and this contains everything for the flowers branch.
So if I decided, that was a big mistake,
or for whatever reason I want
to access those individual commits,
I even want the commit messages or I don't know,
I want something from the past, we don't have to fear.
We can use reflogs. Reflogs are here.
So git reflog show
and then we can do it for flowers and take a look.
Every single one of those commits is still here,
every commit hash.
So this is when I added the flowers file.
Here's where I did some zinnias, some dahlias,
amarants, celosia, they're all here.
So I have to decide,
you know, what point I wanna go back to.
But if I want to go to this point, I want all
of those prior commits, all five commits that are gone now.
I can copy this commit hash or I could copy this,
but I'll copy the commit hash.
The commit is still stored
in the dot git directory and the objects directory.
Now it won't be there forever,
but it's definitely there now.
Git goes through periodically as we talked about
and it cleans up some of these,
it does this thing called garbage collection
if it notices git objects that are not reachable.
So for example, this is not reachable from another commit.
That is part of our history.
It's stored in there and so we can basically say, git,
I want you now to point your branch to this commit instead.
And this commit was
on its own, totally alone, not connected.
And now after I've reset back to this commit,
it will be hooked back into the grid.
We'll have a pointer for our branch referencing to this.
All right, so this is what I want. I can copy this.
Just remember, these commits are not part
of my history anymore, right?
I don't see any of those commits. Just do one line.
None of them are here.
The hashes aren't here,
the messages aren't here because I fixed them up.
I merged 'em all together and gave them a new message too.
I boiled it down to this one commit.
So if I want to reset back to that, I can do that.
Git reset, dash dash hard, not heard,
and then pass in that commit hash.
And this says the flower branch,
that reference, should now point to this commit
that we found in the garbage, we found in the reflog.
And it says head is now at add celosia.
Well, let's look at git log. Hey, look at that.
We have all of those commits.
And the reason this works is
that every commit has, inside of it in that file,
it also stores its parents or parents.
So if we reset based on this one commit,
we also get the parent commit and its parent and so on.
So this ends up doing exactly what I was trying to show you.
We've rebased, we rewrote history,
we eliminated these commits,
we combined them, we renamed them or redid their messages,
we smooshed 'em together.
They were lost or apparently lost,
but I was able to rescue it.
For whatever reason, I decided I wanted to.
I'm able to go back and undo that.
That rebase, it's basically like it never happened.
But actually in our reflog,
we can see that for whatever reason I wanted
to go back and undo the undoing, I could.
I could go to this commit hash right here.
This does not exist right now in my history
but it's in the reflog.
So that object is still stored in git,
but we don't see AB nine when I do git log.
But I could reset to that, but I won't, all right?
So I hope now you can see some
of the utility in the reflog.
Remember, it's local and it's not permanent.
But in a lot of situations, especially
if you do something that seems permanent
or seems bad, rebasing or resetting, a hard reset,
those still can be undone
if you know how to look in the reflog.

--- What Matters In This Section ---

Instructor: So this next section is very short,
and as you can see, there's really not a whole lot we cover.
It's all about setting up your own custom Git aliases.
So there's two things we talk about.
One is how we define the aliases and where we put them,
which is this global config file.
That's normally where we put them.
So I'll say, eh, I don't know, it's worth knowing about that
even outside of the context of aliases,
and then actually writing these aliases is nice to have.
Some people really use a lot of aliases.
They're like shortcuts,
little custom commands you can write,
so you don't have to type out full length Git commands,
but other people aren't as crazy about them.
So I'd say completely nice to have,
but people might argue with me.
Some people are very, I don't wanna say addicted,
but very into their own aliases that they've set up,
so much so that they might not even know
how to use regular Git commands.
They're just so used to,
so accustomed to their custom aliases.
Anyway, nothing critical.
It's a short section and pretty light stuff.
It's kind of fun.
And if you enjoy working with these aliases,
you'll have a lot that you can do after this section.

--- The Global Git Config File ---

Instructor: Before we dive into git aliases,
I wanna talk about the global config file.
We've talked about configuring git
a couple of different times and there are multiple places we
can configure Git, there's actually three.
There is the local config file in every single git repo.
We talked about that, I think,
what, one or two sections ago?
In the .git directory, there is
a file called "config," so settings in there apply
to one repo and just that one local repo.
Then, we have the global git config file
where we can configure settings that will apply
across all repos, but there's actually one level above that,
which I never use, there's a system-wide config file.
If you have multiple users and accounts on one machine,
that system-wide config file would apply
to all of those users, but I just use one account
for the most part, so I configure things globally
if I want them to impact all of my repos.
So we configured things globally early
on using the command line, "git config,"
and then we do --global, and then user.name,
for example, that's one thing that we set,
and then we also did user.email.
I'm just retrieving those values,
but I could change them from the command line,
and when we learn how to make aliases in the next video,
I can do that from the command line.
I'm just adding a new configuration
or I'm changing a setting, but it's kind of annoying
to do it from the command line, for me at least,
I like to see all of my aliases
at once, so we can actually open
up the config file, the global config file.
So where do we look for that?
We saw that the local config file lives
in the .git folder for every repo.
Well, the global config file is called .gitconfig,
it's a hidden file, and it's located
in the Home directory by default.
So we can take a look at it, I could just print it out,
so it's tilde, to reference the home directory, .gitconfig,
and this is what I have in it right now.
I don't think I've really done
a whole lot in this config file.
I've set up, yeah, really not much.
Also, I'll just open it over here. Here we go.
So we have things like user, name is called "Steele,"
so I could change that here, or change my email here,
and this does the exact same thing
that this line did right here
if I were to set user.name to be something else,
so two interfaces that change the same setting,
one from the command line,
it actually changes this file right here.
So if I run this, you'll see it now has been updated.
I didn't change this in the file myself.
This command triggered that change,
but I'm going to go back to what we
had in there and I'm gonna save that, okay?
So there are lots of settings that we can change in here,
just like with the local config files.
It's kind of overwhelming how many things you can update.
Aliases are probably the most important aside
from the basic things like your username
and email as well as setting up your editor.
So I did this early on.
If you recall, I used VS Code,
I set that up, that's what this code is,
that's just the the name that we use to refer to VS Code,
but this could be another editor's name.
That's where we tell Git what editor to use by default,
and so that's the sort of thing we want
to happen globally in all repos.
The same goes for setting up these aliases
that I'll show you in the next video.
We want them to apply across all repos presumably.
I mean, they don't have to, but if you want
to use these nice aliases, why not use them everywhere?
Anyway, the last thing I'll just remind you
of is this weird syntax.
So if you want to change username, it's user is the entity
or the group that we reference in square brackets.
You don't have to indent, but everybody does.
It makes it clear this relationship here,
that name is nested under user,
and then we set name equal to something.
From the command line, it's user and
then dot some property like name.
So it does vary the way that it's set up, or the syntax,
but they end up changing the same setting.
Anyway, this is our global git config file.
In the next video, we will learn how to add
some basic aliases to somewhere in this file,
and hopefully, they're very useful.
So let's see how to do that.

--- Writing Our First Git Alias ---

-: So now we move on to aliases.
So a git alias is just a shortcut, it's a custom command,
a name that we can come up with
that corresponds to some existing git commands.
So instead of typing git status over and over,
I could type git s or git stats or git st.
I can totally customize it.
I can even combine certain commands or add on a bunch
of options, things that get really annoying,
a bunch of flags, and create a shortcut for that,
where instead of typing maybe a hundred characters,
I might type two or three characters.
So the way that we do this is we work
in the global config file, or we set the alias
from the command line, but there is no git alias command.
Instead, we configure aliases just like we set
any other property.
So, I'll show you a very basic example to begin with.
Why don't we do git status?
So instead of typing, git status like this,
I'm in a git repo right now.
Of course it was not gonna work if we're not in one.
Well, it will work, but we won't see this sort of output.
(laughing)
I don't know why I'm reminding you how git status works.
You know that if you run it and you're not in a repo,
it says not in a repo.
Anyway, if I am tired of typing that,
or I type it all the time which I do,
we could set up git s, maybe, or st.
So if I do it in the config file I need to work under alias.
So alias, square brackets,
and then we just follow this syntax s,
if that's what the alias we want to be called,
if we want it to be s, s =
And then some known git command, like status.
Now we don't need to write git status,
we can just write status.
It assumes the git because we'll still need to run git s.
So if I save this file,
and I come over here and I type git s, it works.
And if I instead change that to statpat,
I don't know why, but if that's what I want,
if I try running git statpat,
(laughs)
there we go.
But if I try something else, like git that,
we don't have that command, but I can fix that.
Not that I really would.
And I run it and now it works.
It corresponds to git status.
It's running git status for us.
So I would probably leave that as s or st.
We could do another one for git log
and it would just look like this, l = log.
So, git l would be the same as git log.
git l
And there we are.
Same as git log.
And that's the first most basic type of alias we can do,
just a shortcut, just save.
I mean they're all about saving characters,
but these are very basic,
and we could fill this out with a bunch more.
I'm gonna show you a second way of setting them
from the command line, which some people prefer.
And then we'll talk about aliases
with arguments and then I'll show you some aliases
that, online people have shared, that I don't, you know
I didn't write, but that I use, because they're useful.
So I'll show you those as well.

--- Setting Aliases From The Command Line ---

Instructor: So, this will be a very quick video.
I just wanna show that you can also configure these aliases
from the command line if you prefer.
It's the same exact idea
of configuring any of these properties.
You can do it in the file,
a config file with this syntax,
or you can use the dot syntax on the command line.
So, it would look like this,
git config --global.
Then, we decide what is the alias we want to configure.
Well, it's going to be alias. something.
How about we do a git branch alias?
Instead of making it shorter,
let's do something silly.
So, if you type whatismybranch,
or how about showmebranches?
showmebranches (laughs).
Let's make that an alias for branch.
So, git showmebranches should be the same as git branch.
Very silly.
You'll see though,
if I try running git showmebranches,
it actually now does auto-complete for me.
It just ran git branch, right?
Same output I would see if I did git branch.
And if we go to this file, it shows that change.
So those aliases I set up,
assuming I set them up as a global alias with --global,
they're added to the global config file.
Otherwise, if I set them up locally,
they'll be in the local config file in a specific repo.
So, I probably don't want this alias,
but I'll leave it for now.
In the next video,
I'll talk about how we can write aliases
that work with arguments.

--- Aliases With Arguments ---

Instructor: The aliases we've written so far
have been simple.
There's, what, three of them,
and we have not worked with any arguments.
We haven't passed any additional values to them.
For example, when we run git branch,
often we'll create a new branch
instead of just looking at all branches.
If we do git branch and then a branch name,
it creates the branch.
That would be an argument of value
we're passing to the command.
Or git commit.
If we do dash M, we provide a commit message.
So how can I set up an alias?
For example, let's say I just want C
or maybe CM for commit with a message.
So I could write that alias myself.
CM equals commit dash M.
But then, what about the commit message itself?
Well, the way that Git aliases are set up,
the way they're structured,
is that Git will actually take any arguments
we pass to whatever our alias is, this command.
If we pass something like first commit, for example,
it will take that and pass it through here.
So it will just append it to the end.
So if we have two arguments that we pass through,
for whatever reason, it wouldn't make sense here,
but if we did, Git would pass both of them
in that same order.
So this makes it really really easy
to define aliases that involve arguments.
We can do a lot more complex things.
For example, CM, if we want that for commit message.
So I wouldn't just do C, because a lot of the time,
you need to write full commit messages,
open it up in the editor, multiple lines,
follow a particular format, template for your message,
so I would do CM as the shortcut for dash M.
So if I just do that and I save,
do I have any changes in here?
Let's do our git l, or rather, s.
I don't have anything to commit,
so let's just make a new file.
Let's do touch new.js, all right, and then git s again.
We can add new.js. We didn't set up an alias for that.
And now I can do get cm and then a message,
like my new commit.
All right.
Oh, I totally forgot not to use exclamation points
in the terminal.
And if we take a look, get l for get log,
we see my new commit.
So we successfully made a new commit using CM.
So we could do another example, git add.
There's another one, right?
We add files.
We could just do A equals add,
and I can add as many arguments after,
you know, file one, file two,
they all will be included.
They'll be passed through.
When I do git a, they'll be passed through to git add.
So let's try that.
Here is the repository I'm working on.
Let's just add some changes to this README file
and to this JS file. and to our package.json.
I'm really destroying things.
What should we change in here?
Maybe a version number.
It doesn't matter, I'm just making a lot of changes.
Okay?
So if I type git s now,
instead of status, why not use our new alias?
If I want to add two of them, the README and new.js,
I can do git a, and then README and new.js.
Now, this only saved us two characters, right?
Add is not that long of a command.
None of these are saving us a lot,
although, you know, it's annoying to do git commit -m.
But I'm gonna show you in the next video
some more complicated commands or aliases
that people like to use that we'll just steal.
Well, they're shared for us to use, so we will borrow.
But lemme just demonstrate this.
So git a with these two arguments,
they both were passed through, those two values, to git add.
And if we take a look at our status,
both of them are ready to be committed,
and now we can do commit with a message.
You know, another commit.
Yay.
And we'll do git l, and there we are.
Another commit, yay.
Okay, so you don't really have to worry about arguments.
You don't have to do anything fancy.
They're automatically passed through
when you define an alias and call it.

--- Exploring Existing Useful Aliases Online ---

Instructor: Okay, so we've seen
how we can define our own aliases.
What I wanna show you in this video
is how we can find useful aliases.
So there are lots of blog posts
and Reddit posts about different Git aliases
and share your favorite Git aliases, stack overflow
and so on.
Why don't we take a look at, how about this one right here?
So this is a blog post.
I'll include these links as resources.
And there's a couple on here,
like this one right here, ls,
that is basically a very pretty formatted way
of updating Git Log.
So you could type this yourself.
This is just a very fancy way
of updating the display for Git Log.
So we can change the color,
but we can also reorder things
and show the hash first and then a message
and then an author instead of curly braces
or square brackets rather.
These are all things that you can actually tweak too.
But if we wanted this one, we just copy it.
Take this and put it in our Git config.
Okay, so let's try it.
This is what my regular Git log looks like.
Here's what one line looks like.
I could also do it this way.
Okay, and then here is what this new alias looks like.
And I'm pretty zoomed in.
But if we take a look now, right,
we see the commit hash, we see the message,
and then we see the committer,
I believe is what this is not the author.
Anyway, here's another example.
So this one looks pretty useful, Git ll.
This will list commits showing changed files.
So if I want to know more about, you know,
what changed within a given commit
in which files were updated,
this is going to be kind of a nightmare to look at I'm sure,
but if I do get ll...
Oh, it's actually not so bad.
You can see in one commit I changed README and new js
or this is a react repo.
We can see in other commits quite a few files,
lots of files were changed.
So that could be very useful as well, right?
This is more than just saving us time.
This is actually giving us functionality
that we probably wouldn't have used otherwise.
I'm not gonna go and type this,
I'm not gonna remember it, let alone type it,
but this can be very useful now
to have this option at our disposal.
And there are quite a few others on just this one blog post.
For example, this one,
depending on your workflow and the company you work for,
if they have a specific workflow, this can be nice.
This is a command that just renames branches
by prepending done to their name.
So it's a very long looking command,
and this isn't, you know,
a lot of work to do without an alias.
But it's nice just to have this alias done
and be able to just say Git done.
What you'll see on some of these commands, however,
we have not talked about, is an exclamation point.
What that means, if it's in a Git Alias
it actually tells Git that this is a shell script.
So that gives us access to things that are not Git commands,
like if you're familiar with grep or echo
or really any commands that we would use in our shell.
So we can combine those with Git commands
that we do need to then use Git.
So instead of just branch, Git branch
or Git config and so on.
Anyway, this one lists all the aliases that you have set up.
So that could be useful
if in case you ever forget the different aliases,
which you know for some of these
if you don't use 'em all the time
they're still good to have around, right?
Even if you don't remember that this is ll,
if you are able to just access all your aliases quickly
that's what this will do.
So again, this one is in quotes
because it's telling Git this is going to be a shell script,
that's what the exclamation point means.
And that gives us access to things like grip,
grep rather not grip.
So if I try this, git la, list aliases,
there's a list of my aliases.
And I think that's enough for now.
I don't want to waste your time, you know,
just as I go through these
and sort of pick them out one at a time and show you them,
you can set these up on your own.
I'll include all of these links.
Figure out what works for you.
One word of caution if you are working,
this is coming from my personal experience,
if you use aliases,
and I use them a lot in my personal life
or especially I used to,
when I started teaching more
I realized how heavily I actually had relied on aliases
or like my muscle memory was just accustomed
to my personal aliases.
So if you're working on someone else's computer
a coworker or in my case students,
I just kept typing things that didn't exist.
So a word of mild warning.
There's a reason I didn't have everybody set up aliases
on day one of this course or lecture one.
It would've made the videos shorter,
but you need to understand the underlying commands
and remember what they are.
But aliases can be a nice tool to save you some time.
So take a look at some of the links I've included.
There's a whole file full of aliases.
A very comprehensive file that I'll include.
It's from a Git repo called Git Alias,
and you can read more about it, it's pretty popular.
And it has a read me that explains how it works.
There's kind of a system
for the way that these aliases are set up.
It's not just a hodgepodge of useful aliases,
they actually follow a particular format
that has some rules.
Anyway, I'll let you explore that on your own.
And that's really it for this section on aliases.
